INTRODUCTION TO GLOBALIZATION

Globalization is a term used to describe how trade and technology have made the world into a more connected and interdependent place. Globalization also captures in its scope the economic and social changes that have come about as a result. It may be pictured as the threads of an immense spider web formed over millennia, with the number and reach of these threads increasing over time. People, money, material goods, ideas, and even disease and devastation have traveled these silken strands, and have done so in greater numbers and with greater speed than ever in the present age.

When did globalization begin? The Silk Road, an ancient network of trade routes across China, Central Asia, and the Mediterranean used between 50 B.C.E. and 250 C.E., is perhaps the most well-known early example of exchanging ideas, products, and customs. As with future globalizing booms, new technologies played a key role in the Silk Road trade. Advances in metallurgy led to the creation of coins; advances in transportation led to the building of roads connecting the major empires of the day; and increased agricultural production meant more food could be trafficked between locales. Along with Chinese silk, Roman glass, and Arabian spices, ideas such as Buddhist beliefs and the secrets of paper-making also spread via these tendrils of trade.

Unquestionably, these types of exchanges were accelerated in the Age of Exploration, when European explorers seeking new sea routes to the spices and silks of Asia bumped into the Americas instead. Again, technology played an important role in the maritime trade routes that flourished between old and newly discovered continents. New ship designs and the creation of the magnetic compass were key to the explorers’ successes. Trade and idea exchange now extended to a previously unconnected part of the world, where ships carrying plants, animals, and Spanish silver between the Old World and the New also carried Christian missionaries.

The web of globalization continued to spin out through the Age of Revolution, when ideas about liberty, equality, and fraternity spread like fire from America to France to Latin America and beyond. It rode the waves of industrialization, colonization, and war through the eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth centuries, powered by the invention of factories, railways, steamboats, cars, and planes.

With the Information Age, globalization went into overdrive. Advances in computer and communications technology launched a new global era and redefined what it meant to be “connected.” Modern communications satellites meant the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo could be watched in the United States for the first time. The World Wide Web and the Internet allowed someone in Germany to read about a breaking news story in Bolivia in real time. Someone wishing to travel from Boston, Massachusetts, to London, England, could do so in hours rather than the week or more it would have taken a hundred years ago. This digital revolution massively impacted economies across the world as well: they became more information-based and more interdependent. In the modern era, economic success or failure at one focal point of the global web can be felt in every major world economy.

The benefits and disadvantages of globalization are the subject of ongoing debate. The downside to globalization can be seen in the increased risk for the transmission of diseases like ebola or severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), or in the kind of environmental harm that scientist Paul R. Furumo has studied in microcosm in palm oil plantations in the tropics. Globalization has of course led to great good, too. Richer nations now can—and do—come to the aid of poorer nations in crisis. Increasing diversity in many countries has meant more opportunity to learn about and celebrate other cultures. The sense that there is a global village, a worldwide “us,” has emerged.

Globalization, or globalisation (Commonwealth English; see spelling differences), is the process of interaction and integration among people, companies, and governments worldwide. The term globalization first appeared in the early 20th century (supplanting an earlier French term mondialization), developed its current meaning some time in the second half of the 20th century, and came into popular use in the 1990s to describe the unprecedented international connectivity of the post-Cold War world.[1] Its origins can be traced back to 18th and 19th centuries due to advances in transportation and communications technology. This increase in global interactions has caused a growth in international trade and the exchange of ideas, beliefs, and culture. Globalization is primarily an economic process of interaction and integration that is associated with social and cultural aspects. However, disputes and international diplomacy are also large parts of the history of globalization, and of modern globalization.

Economically, globalization involves goods, services, data, technology, and the economic resources of capital.[2] The expansion of global markets liberalizes the economic activities of the exchange of goods and funds. Removal of cross-border trade barriers has made the formation of global markets more feasible.[3] Advances in transportation, like the steam locomotive, steamship, jet engine, and container ships, and developments in telecommunication infrastructure, like the telegraph, Internet, mobile phones, and smartphones, have been major factors in globalization and have generated further interdependence of economic and cultural activities around the globe.[4][5][6]

Though many scholars place the origins of globalization in modern times, others trace its history to long before the European Age of Discovery and voyages to the New World, and some even to the third millennium BCE.[7] Large-scale globalization began in the 1820s, and in the late 19th century and early 20th century drove a rapid expansion in the connectivity of the world's economies and cultures.[8] The term global city was subsequently popularized by sociologist Saskia Sassen in her work The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo (1991).[9]

In 2000, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) identified four basic aspects of globalization: trade and transactions, capital and investment movements, migration and movement of people, and the dissemination of knowledge.[10] Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work organization, economics, sociocultural resources, and the natural environment. Academic literature commonly divides globalization into three major areas: economic globalization, cultural globalization, and political globalization.[11]

Etymology and usage
Edit
The word globalization was used in the English language as early as the 1930s, but only in the context of education, and the term failed to gain traction. Over the next few decades, the term was occasionally used by other scholars and media, but it was not clearly defined.[1] One of the first usages of the term in the meaning resembling the later, common usage was by French economist François Perroux in his essays from the early 1960s (in his French works he used the term mondialization (literary worldization), also translated as mundialization).[1] Theodore Levitt is often credited with popularizing the term and bringing it into the mainstream business audience in the later in the middle of 1980s.[1]

Since its inception, the concept of globalization has inspired competing definitions and interpretations. Its antecedents date back to the great movements of trade and empire across Asia and the Indian Ocean from the 15th century onward.[12][13]

In 1848, Karl Marx noticed the increasing level of national inter-dependence brought on by capitalism, and predicted the universal character of the modern world society. He states:

"The bourgeoisie has through its exploitation of the world market given a cosmopolitan character to production and consumption in every country. To the great chagrin of Reactionists, it has drawn from under the feet of industry the national ground on which it stood. All old-established national industries have been destroyed or are daily being destroyed. . . . In place of the old local and national seclusion and self-sufficiency, we have intercourse in every direction, universal inter-dependence of nations."[14]

Sociologists Martin Albrow and Elizabeth King define globalization as "all those processes by which the people of the world are incorporated into a single world society."[2] In The Consequences of Modernity, Anthony Giddens writes: "Globalization can thus be defined as the intensification of worldwide social relations which link distant localities in such a way that local happenings are shaped by events occurring many miles away and vice versa."[15] In 1992, Roland Robertson, professor of sociology at the University of Aberdeen and an early writer in the field, described globalization as "the compression of the world and the intensification of the consciousness of the world as a whole."[16]

In Global Transformations, David Held and his co-writers state:

Although in its simplistic sense globalization refers to the widening, deepening and speeding up of global interconnection, such a definition begs further elaboration. ... Globalization can be on a continuum with the local, national and regional. At one end of the continuum lie social and economic relations and networks which are organized on a local and/or national basis; at the other end lie social and economic relations and networks which crystallize on the wider scale of regional and global interactions. Globalization can refer to those spatial-temporal processes of change which underpin a transformation in the organization of human affairs by linking together and expanding human activity across regions and continents. Without reference to such expansive spatial connections, there can be no clear or coherent formulation of this term. ... A satisfactory definition of globalization must capture each of these elements: extensity (stretching), intensity, velocity and impact.[17]

Held and his co-writers' definition of globalization in that same book as "transformation in the spatial organization of social relations and transactions—assessed in terms of their extensity, intensity, velocity and impact—generating transcontinental or inter-regional flows" was called "probably the most widely-cited definition" in the 2014 DHL Global Connectiveness Index.[18]

Swedish journalist Thomas Larsson, in his book The Race to the Top: The Real Story of Globalization, states that globalization:

is the process of world shrinkage, of distances getting shorter, things moving closer. It pertains to the increasing ease with which somebody on one side of the world can interact, to mutual benefit, with somebody on the other side of the world.[19]

Paul James defines globalization with a more direct and historically contextualized emphasis:

Globalization is the extension of social relations across world-space, defining that world-space in terms of the historically variable ways that it has been practiced and socially understood through changing world-time.[20]

Manfred Steger, professor of global studies and research leader in the Global Cities Institute at RMIT University, identifies four main empirical dimensions of globalization: economic, political, cultural, and ecological. A fifth dimension—the ideological—cutting across the other four. The ideological dimension, according to Steger, is filled with a range of norms, claims, beliefs, and narratives about the phenomenon itself.[21]

James and Steger stated that the concept of globalization "emerged from the intersection of four interrelated sets of 'communities of practice' (Wenger, 1998): academics, journalists, publishers/editors, and librarians."[1]: 424  They note the term was used "in education to describe the global life of the mind"; in international relations to describe the extension of the European Common Market, and in journalism to describe how the "American Negro and his problem are taking on a global significance".[1] They have also argued that four forms of globalization can be distinguished that complement and cut across the solely empirical dimensions.[20][22] According to James, the oldest dominant form of globalization is embodied globalization, the movement of people. A second form is agency-extended globalization, the circulation of agents of different institutions, organizations, and polities, including imperial agents. Object-extended globalization, a third form, is the movement of commodities and other objects of exchange. He calls the transmission of ideas, images, knowledge, and information across world-space disembodied globalization, maintaining that it is currently the dominant form of globalization. James holds that this series of distinctions allows for an understanding of how, today, the most embodied forms of globalization such as the movement of refugees and migrants are increasingly restricted, while the most disembodied forms such as the circulation of financial instruments and codes are the most deregulated.[23]

The journalist Thomas L. Friedman popularized the term "flat world", arguing that globalized trade, outsourcing, supply-chaining, and political forces had permanently changed the world, for better and worse. He asserted that the pace of globalization was quickening and that its impact on business organization and practice would continue to grow.[24]

Economist Takis Fotopoulos defined "economic globalization" as the opening and deregulation of commodity, capital, and labor markets that led toward present neoliberal globalization. He used "political globalization" to refer to the emergence of a transnational élite and a phasing out of the nation-state. Meanwhile, he used "cultural globalization" to reference the worldwide homogenization of culture. Other of his usages included "ideological globalization", "technological globalization", and "social globalization".[25]

Lechner and Boli (2012) define globalization as more people across large distances becoming connected in more and different ways.[26]

"Globophobia" is used to refer to the fear of globalization, though it can also mean the fear of balloons.[27][28][29]

History

There are both distal and proximate causes which can be traced in the historical factors affecting globalization. Large-scale globalization began in the 19th century.[30]

Archaic
Edit

The 13th century world-system, as described by Janet Abu-Lughod
Main article: Archaic globalization
Archaic globalization conventionally refers to a phase in the history of globalization including globalizing events and developments from the time of the earliest civilizations until roughly the 1600s. This term is used to describe the relationships between communities and states and how they were created by the geographical spread of ideas and social norms at both local and regional levels.[31]

In this schema, three main prerequisites are posited for globalization to occur. The first is the idea of Eastern Origins, which shows how Western states have adapted and implemented learned principles from the East.[31] Without the spread of traditional ideas from the East, Western globalization would not have emerged the way it did. The interactions of states were not on a global scale and most often were confined to Asia, North Africa, the Middle East, and certain parts of Europe.[31] With early globalization, it was difficult for states to interact with others that were not close. Eventually, technological advances allowed states to learn of others' existence and thus another phase of globalization can occur. The third has to do with inter-dependency, stability, and regularity. If a state is not dependent on another, then there is no way for either state to be mutually affected by the other. This is one of the driving forces behind global connections and trade; without either, globalization would not have emerged the way it did and states would still be dependent on their own production and resources to work. This is one of the arguments surrounding the idea of early globalization. It is argued that archaic globalization did not function in a similar manner to modern globalization because states were not as interdependent on others as they are today.[31]

Also posited is a "multi-polar" nature to archaic globalization, which involved the active participation of non-Europeans. Because it predated the Great Divergence in the nineteenth century, where Western Europe pulled ahead of the rest of the world in terms of industrial production and economic output, archaic globalization was a phenomenon that was driven not only by Europe but also by other economically developed Old World centers such as Gujarat, Bengal, coastal China, and Japan.[32]


Portuguese carrack in Nagasaki, 17th-century Japanese Nanban art
The German historical economist and sociologist Andre Gunder Frank argues that a form of globalization began with the rise of trade links between Sumer and the Indus Valley civilization in the third millennium BCE. This archaic globalization existed during the Hellenistic Age, when commercialized urban centers enveloped the axis of Greek culture that reached from India to Spain, including Alexandria and the other Alexandrine cities. Early on, the geographic position of Greece and the necessity of importing wheat forced the Greeks to engage in maritime trade. Trade in ancient Greece was largely unrestricted: the state controlled only the supply of grain.[7]


The Silk Road in the 1st century

Native New World crops exchanged globally: Maize, tomato, potato, vanilla, rubber, cacao, tobacco
Trade on the Silk Road was a significant factor in the development of civilizations from China, Indian subcontinent, Persia, Europe, and Arabia, opening long-distance political and economic interactions between them.[33] Though silk was certainly the major trade item from China, common goods such as salt and sugar were traded as well; and religions, syncretic philosophies, and various technologies, as well as diseases, also traveled along the Silk Routes. In addition to economic trade, the Silk Road served as a means of carrying out cultural trade among the civilisations along its network.[34] The movement of people, such as refugees, artists, craftsmen, missionaries, robbers, and envoys, resulted in the exchange of religions, art, languages, and new technologies.[35]

Early modern
Edit
Main article: Proto-globalization
"Early modern" or "proto-globalization" covers a period of the history of globalization roughly spanning the years between 1600 and 1800. The concept of "proto-globalization" was first introduced by historians A. G. Hopkins and Christopher Bayly. The term describes the phase of increasing trade links and cultural exchange that characterized the period immediately preceding the advent of high "modern globalization" in the late 19th century.[36] This phase of globalization was characterized by the rise of maritime European empires, in the 15th and 17th centuries, first the Portuguese Empire (1415) followed by the Spanish Empire (1492), and later the Dutch and British Empires. In the 17th century, world trade developed further when chartered companies like the British East India Company (founded in 1600) and the Dutch East India Company (founded in 1602, often described as the first multinational corporation in which stock was offered) were established.[37]


Lisbon in the 1570s had many Africans.
An alternative view from historians Dennis Flynn and Arturo Giraldez, postulated that: globalization began with the first circumnavigation of the globe under the Magellan-Elcano expedition which preluded the rise of Global Silver Trade.[38]

Early modern globalization is distinguished from modern globalization on the basis of expansionism, the method of managing global trade, and the level of information exchange. The period is marked by such trade arrangements as the East India Company, the shift of hegemony to Western Europe, the rise of larger-scale conflicts between powerful nations such as the Thirty Years' War, and the rise of newfound commodities—most particularly slave trade. The Triangular Trade made it possible for Europe to take advantage of resources within the Western Hemisphere. The transfer of animal stocks, plant crops, and epidemic diseases associated with Alfred W. Crosby's concept of the Columbian Exchange also played a central role in this process. European, Muslims, Indian, Southeast Asian, and Chinese merchants were all involved in early modern trade and communications, particularly in the Indian Ocean region.


The 1843 launch of the Great Britain, the revolutionary ship of Isambard Kingdom Brunel

During the 19th and early 20th centuries, the United Kingdom was a global superpower.
Modern
Edit
According to economic historians Kevin H. O'Rourke, Leandro Prados de la Escosura, and Guillaume Daudin, several factors promoted globalization in the period 1815–1870:[39]

The conclusion of the Napoleonic Wars brought in an era of relative peace in Europe.
Innovations in transportation technology reduced trade costs substantially.
New industrial military technologies increased the power of European states and the United States, and allowed these powers to forcibly open up markets across the world and extend their empires.
A gradual move towards greater liberalization in European countries.
During the 19th century, globalization approached its form as a direct result of the Industrial Revolution. Industrialization allowed standardized production of household items using economies of scale while rapid population growth created sustained demand for commodities. In the 19th century, steamships reduced the cost of international transportation significantly and railroads made inland transportation cheaper. The transportation revolution occurred some time between 1820 and 1850.[30] More nations embraced international trade.[30] Globalization in this period was decisively shaped by nineteenth-century imperialism such as in Africa and Asia. The invention of shipping containers in 1956 helped advance the globalization of commerce.[40][41]

After World War II, work by politicians led to the agreements of the Bretton Woods Conference, in which major governments laid down the framework for international monetary policy, commerce, and finance, and the founding of several international institutions intended to facilitate economic growth by lowering trade barriers. Initially, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) led to a series of agreements to remove trade restrictions. GATT's successor was the World Trade Organization (WTO), which provided a framework for negotiating and formalizing trade agreements and a dispute resolution process. Exports nearly doubled from 8.5% of total gross world product in 1970 to 16.2% in 2001.[42] The approach of using global agreements to advance trade stumbled with the failure of the Doha Development Round of trade negotiation. Many countries then shifted to bilateral or smaller multilateral agreements, such as the 2011 South Korea–United States Free Trade Agreement.

Since the 1970s, aviation has become increasingly affordable to middle classes in developed countries. Open skies policies and low-cost carriers have helped to bring competition to the market. In the 1990s, the growth of low-cost communication networks cut the cost of communicating between countries. More work can be performed using a computer without regard to location. This included accounting, software development, and engineering design.

Student exchange programs became popular after World War II, and are intended to increase the participants' understanding and tolerance of other cultures, as well as improving their language skills and broadening their social horizons. Between 1963 and 2006 the number of students studying in a foreign country increased 9 times.[43]


D.H. Comet, the world's first commercial jet airliner, entered service in 1949.
Since the 1980s, modern globalization has spread rapidly through the expansion of capitalism and neoliberal ideologies.[44] The implementation of neoliberal policies has allowed for the privatization of public industry, deregulation of laws or policies that interfered with the free flow of the market, as well as cut-backs to governmental social services.[45] These neoliberal policies were introduced to many developing countries in the form of structural adjustment programs (SAPs) that were implemented by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).[44] These programs required that the country receiving monetary aid would open its markets to capitalism, privatize public industry, allow free trade, cut social services like healthcare and education and allow the free movement of giant multinational corporations.[46] These programs allowed the World Bank and the IMF to become global financial market regulators that would promote neoliberalism and the creation of free markets for multinational corporations on a global scale.[47]


With a population of 1.4 billion, China is the world's second-largest economy.
In the late 19th and early 20th century, the connectedness of the world's economies and cultures grew very quickly. This slowed down from the 1910s onward due to the World Wars and the Cold War,[48] but picked up again in the 1980s and 1990s.[49] The revolutions of 1989 and subsequent liberalization in many parts of the world resulted in a significant expansion of global interconnectedness. The migration and movement of people can also be highlighted as a prominent feature of the globalization process. In the period between 1965 and 1990, the proportion of the labor force migrating approximately doubled. Most migration occurred between the developing countries and least developed countries (LDCs).[50] As economic integration intensified workers moved to areas with higher wages and most of the developing world oriented toward the international market economy. The collapse of the Soviet Union not only ended the Cold War's division of the world – it also left the United States its sole policeman and an unfettered advocate of free market.[according to whom?] It also resulted in the growing prominence of attention focused on the movement of diseases, the proliferation of popular culture and consumer values, the growing prominence of international institutions like the UN, and concerted international action on such issues as the environment and human rights.[51] Other developments as dramatic were the Internet's becoming influential in connecting people across the world; As of June 2012, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world's human population—have used the services of the Internet.[52][53] Growth of globalization has never been smooth. One influential event was the late 2000s recession, which was associated with lower growth (in areas such as cross-border phone calls and Skype usage) or even temporarily negative growth (in areas such as trade) of global interconnectedness.[54][55]

The China–United States trade war, starting in 2018, negatively affected trade between the two largest national economies. The economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic included a massive decline in tourism and international business travel as many countries temporarily closed borders. The 2021–2022 global supply chain crisis resulted from temporary shutdowns of manufacturing and transportation facilities, and labor shortages. Supply problems incentivized some switches to domestic production.[56] The economic impact of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine included a blockade of Ukrainian ports and international sanctions on Russia, resulting in some de-coupling of the Russian economy with global trade, especially with the European Union and other Western countries.


Economic globalization
Edit
Main article: Economic globalization

Singapore is the top country in the Enabling Trade Index as of 2016.

U.S. Trade Balance and Trade Policy (1895–2015)

Dividends worth CZK 289 billion were paid to the foreign owners of Czech companies in 2016.[57]
Economic globalization is the increasing economic interdependence of national economies across the world through a rapid increase in cross-border movement of goods, services, technology, and capital.[58] Whereas the globalization of business is centered around the diminution of international trade regulations as well as tariffs, taxes, and other impediments that suppresses global trade, economic globalization is the process of increasing economic integration between countries, leading to the emergence of a global marketplace or a single world market.[59] Depending on the paradigm, economic globalization can be viewed as either a positive or a negative phenomenon. Economic globalization comprises: globalization of production; which refers to the obtainment of goods and services from a particular source from locations around the globe to benefit from difference in cost and quality. Likewise, it also comprises globalization of markets; which is defined as the union of different and separate markets into a massive global marketplace. Economic globalization also includes[60] competition, technology, and corporations and industries.[58]

Current globalization trends can be largely accounted for by developed economies integrating with less developed economies by means of foreign direct investment, the reduction of trade barriers as well as other economic reforms, and, in many cases, immigration.[61]

International standards have made trade in goods and services more efficient. An example of such standard is the intermodal container. Containerization dramatically reduced the costs of transportation, supported the post-war boom in international trade, and was a major element in globalization.[40] International standards are set by the International Organization for Standardization, which is composed of representatives from various national standards organizations.

A multinational corporation, or worldwide enterprise,[62] is an organization that owns or controls the production of goods or services in one or more countries other than their home country.[63] It can also be referred to as an international corporation, a transnational corporation, or a stateless corporation.[64]

A free-trade area is the region encompassing a trade bloc whose member countries have signed a free-trade agreement (FTA). Such agreements involve cooperation between at least two countries to reduce trade barriers – import quotas and tariffs – and to increase trade of goods and services with each other.[65] If people are also free to move between the countries, in addition to a free-trade agreement, it would also be considered an open border. Arguably the most significant free-trade area in the world is the European Union, a politico-economic union of 27 member states that are primarily located in Europe. The EU has developed European Single Market through a standardized system of laws that apply in all member states. EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, services, and capital within the internal market,[66]

Trade facilitation looks at how procedures and controls governing the movement of goods across national borders can be improved to reduce associated cost burdens and maximize efficiency while safeguarding legitimate regulatory objectives.

Global trade in services is also significant. For example, in India, business process outsourcing has been described as the "primary engine of the country's development over the next few decades, contributing broadly to GDP growth, employment growth, and poverty alleviation".[67][68]

William I. Robinson's theoretical approach to globalization is a critique of Wallerstein's World Systems Theory. He believes that the global capital experienced today is due to a new and distinct form of globalization which began in the 1980s. Robinson argues not only are economic activities expanded across national boundaries but also there is a transnational fragmentation of these activities.[69] One important aspect of Robinson's globalization theory is that production of goods are increasingly global. This means that one pair of shoes can be produced by six countries, each contributing to a part of the production process.

Cultural globalization
Edit

Shakira, a Colombian multilingual singer-songwriter, playing outside her home country
Main article: Cultural globalization
Cultural globalization refers to the transmission of ideas, meanings, and values around the world in such a way as to extend and intensify social relations.[70] This process is marked by the common consumption of cultures that have been diffused by the Internet, popular culture media, and international travel. This has added to processes of commodity exchange and colonization which have a longer history of carrying cultural meaning around the globe. The circulation of cultures enables individuals to partake in extended social relations that cross national and regional borders. The creation and expansion of such social relations is not merely observed on a material level. Cultural globalization involves the formation of shared norms and knowledge with which people associate their individual and collective cultural identities. It brings increasing interconnectedness among different populations and cultures.[71]

Cross-cultural communication is a field of study that looks at how people from differing cultural backgrounds communicate, in similar and different ways among themselves, and how they endeavour to communicate across cultures. Intercultural communication is a related field of study.

Cultural diffusion is the spread of cultural items—such as ideas, styles, religions, technologies, languages etc. Cultural globalization has increased cross-cultural contacts, but may be accompanied by a decrease in the uniqueness of once-isolated communities. For example, sushi is available in Germany as well as Japan, but Euro-Disney outdraws the city of Paris, potentially reducing demand for "authentic" French pastry.[72][73][74] Globalization's contribution to the alienation of individuals from their traditions may be modest compared to the impact of modernity itself, as alleged by existentialists such as Jean-Paul Sartre and Albert Camus. Globalization has expanded recreational opportunities by spreading pop culture, particularly via the Internet and satellite television. The cultural diffusion can create a homogenizing force, where globalisation is seen as synonymous with homogenizing force via connectedness of markets, cultures, politics and the desire for modernizations through imperial countries sphere of influence.[75]

Religions were among the earliest cultural elements to globalize, being spread by force, migration, evangelists, imperialists, and traders. Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, and more recently sects such as Mormonism are among those religions which have taken root and influenced endemic cultures in places far from their origins.[76]


McDonald's is commonly seen as a symbol of globalization, often called McDonaldization of global society.
Globalization has strongly influenced sports.[77] For example, the modern Olympic Games has athletes from more than 200 nations participating in a variety of competitions.[78] The FIFA World Cup is the most widely viewed and followed sporting event in the world, exceeding even the Olympic Games; a ninth of the entire population of the planet watched the 2006 FIFA World Cup Final.[79][80][81][82]

The term globalization implies transformation. Cultural practices including traditional music can be lost or turned into a fusion of traditions. Globalization can trigger a state of emergency for the preservation of musical heritage. Archivists may attempt to collect, record, or transcribe repertoires before melodies are assimilated or modified, while local musicians may struggle for authenticity and to preserve local musical traditions. Globalization can lead performers to discard traditional instruments. Fusion genres can become interesting fields of analysis.[83]

Music has an important role in economic and cultural development during globalization. Music genres such as jazz and reggae began locally and later became international phenomena. Globalization gave support to the world music phenomenon by allowing music from developing countries to reach broader audiences.[84] Though the term "World Music" was originally intended for ethnic-specific music, globalization is now expanding its scope such that the term often includes hybrid subgenres such as "world fusion", "global fusion", "ethnic fusion",[85] and worldbeat.[86][87]


Use of chili pepper has spread from the Americas to cuisines around the world, including Thailand, Korea, China, and Italy.[88]
Bourdieu claimed that the perception of consumption can be seen as self-identification and the formation of identity. Musically, this translates into each individual having their own musical identity based on likes and tastes. These likes and tastes are greatly influenced by culture, as this is the most basic cause for a person's wants and behavior. The concept of one's own culture is now in a period of change due to globalization. Also, globalization has increased the interdependency of political, personal, cultural, and economic factors.[89]

A 2005 UNESCO report[90] showed that cultural exchange is becoming more frequent from Eastern Asia, but that Western countries are still the main exporters of cultural goods. In 2002, China was the third largest exporter of cultural goods, after the UK and US. Between 1994 and 2002, both North America's and the European Union's shares of cultural exports declined while Asia's cultural exports grew to surpass North America. Related factors are the fact that Asia's population and area are several times that of North America. Americanization is related to a period of high political American clout and of significant growth of America's shops, markets and objects being brought into other countries.

Some critics of globalization argue that it harms the diversity of cultures. As a dominating country's culture is introduced into a receiving country through globalization, it can become a threat to the diversity of local culture. Some argue that globalization may ultimately lead to Westernization or Americanization of culture, where the dominating cultural concepts of economically and politically powerful Western countries spread and cause harm to local cultures.[91]

Globalization is a diverse phenomenon that relates to a multilateral political world and to the increase of cultural objects and markets between countries. The Indian experience particularly reveals the plurality of the impact of cultural globalization.[92]

Transculturalism is defined as "seeing oneself in the other".[93] Transcultural[94] is in turn described as "extending through all human cultures"[94] or "involving, encompassing, or combining elements of more than one culture".[95]

Political globalization
Edit
Main article: Political globalization

The United Nations headquarters in New York City
Political globalization refers to the growth of the worldwide political system, both in size and complexity. That system includes national governments, their governmental and intergovernmental organizations as well as government-independent elements of global civil society such as international non-governmental organizations and social movement organizations. One of the key aspects of the political globalization is the declining importance of the nation-state and the rise of other actors on the political scene. William R. Thompson has defined it as "the expansion of a global political system, and its institutions, in which inter-regional transactions (including, but certainly not limited to trade) are managed".[96] Political globalization is one of the three main dimensions of globalization commonly found in academic literature, with the two other being economic globalization and cultural globalization.[11]

Intergovernmentalism is a term in political science with two meanings. The first refers to a theory of regional integration originally proposed by Stanley Hoffmann; the second treats states and the national government as the primary factors for integration.[97] Multi-level governance is an approach in political science and public administration theory that originated from studies on European integration. Multi-level governance gives expression to the idea that there are many interacting authority structures at work in the emergent global political economy. It illuminates the intimate entanglement between the domestic and international levels of authority.

Some people are citizens of multiple nation-states. Multiple citizenship, also called dual citizenship or multiple nationality or dual nationality, is a person's citizenship status, in which a person is concurrently regarded as a citizen of more than one state under the laws of those states.


U.S. military presence around the world in 2007. As of 2015, the U.S. still had many bases and troops stationed globally.[98]
Increasingly, non-governmental organizations influence public policy across national boundaries, including humanitarian aid and developmental efforts.[99] Philanthropic organizations with global missions are also coming to the forefront of humanitarian efforts; charities such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Accion International, the Acumen Fund (now Acumen) and the Echoing Green have combined the business model with philanthropy, giving rise to business organizations such as the Global Philanthropy Group and new associations of philanthropists such as the Global Philanthropy Forum. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation projects include a current multibillion-dollar commitment to funding immunizations in some of the world's more impoverished but rapidly growing countries.[100] The Hudson Institute estimates total private philanthropic flows to developing countries at US$59 billion in 2010.[101]

As a response to globalization, some countries have embraced isolationist policies. For example, the North Korean government makes it very difficult for foreigners to enter the country and strictly monitors their activities when they do. Aid workers are subject to considerable scrutiny and excluded from places and regions the government does not wish them to enter. Citizens cannot freely leave the country.[102][103]

Globalization and gender
Edit

From the documentary Ukraine Is Not a Brothel. Radical group Femen protest against the increase in sex tourism into Ukraine.
Globalization has been a gendered process where giant multinational corporations have outsourced jobs to low-wage, low skilled, quota free economies like the ready made garment industry in Bangladesh where poor women make up the majority of labor force.[104] Despite a large proportion of women workers in the garment industry, women are still heavily underemployed compared to men.[104] Most women that are employed in the garment industry come from the countryside of Bangladesh triggering migration of women in search of garment work.[104] It is still unclear as to whether or not access to paid work for women where it did not exist before has empowered them.[104] The answers varied depending on whether it is the employers perspective or the workers and how they view their choices.[104] Women workers did not see the garment industry as economically sustainable for them in the long run due to long hours standing and poor working conditions.[104] Although women workers did show significant autonomy over their personal lives including their ability to negotiate with family, more choice in marriage, and being valued as a wage earner in the family. This did not translate into workers being able to collectively organize themselves in order to negotiate a better deal for themselves at work.[104]

Another example of outsourcing in manufacturing includes the maquiladora industry in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico where poor women make up the majority of the labor force.[105] Women in the maquiladora industry have produced high levels of turnover not staying long enough to be trained compared to men.[105] A gendered two tiered system within the maquiladora industry has been created that focuses on training and worker loyalty.[105] Women are seen as being untrainable, placed in un-skilled, low wage jobs, while men are seen as more trainable with less turnover rates, and placed in more high skilled technical jobs.[105] The idea of training has become a tool used against women to blame them for their high turnover rates which also benefit the industry keeping women as temporary workers.[105]

Other dimensions
Edit
Scholars also occasionally discuss other, less common dimensions of globalization, such as environmental globalization (the internationally coordinated practices and regulations, often in the form of international treaties, regarding environmental protection)[106] or military globalization (growth in global extent and scope of security relationships).[107] Those dimensions, however, receive much less attention the three described above, as academic literature commonly subdivides globalization into three major areas: economic globalization, cultural globalization and political globalization.[11]

Movement of people
Edit

Scheduled airline traffic in 2009
An essential aspect of globalization is movement of people, and state-boundary limits on that movement have changed across history.[108] The movement of tourists and business people opened up over the last century. As transportation technology improved, travel time and costs decreased dramatically between the 18th and early 20th century. For example, travel across the Atlantic ocean used to take up to 5 weeks in the 18th century, but around the time of the 20th century it took a mere 8 days.[109] Today, modern aviation has made long-distance transportation quick and affordable.

Tourism is travel for pleasure. The developments in technology and transportation infrastructure, such as jumbo jets, low-cost airlines, and more accessible airports have made many types of tourism more affordable. At any given moment half a million people are in the air.[110] International tourist arrivals surpassed the milestone of 1 billion tourists globally for the first time in 2012.[111] A visa is a conditional authorization granted by a country to a foreigner, allowing them to enter and temporarily remain within, or to leave that country. Some countries – such as those in the Schengen Area – have agreements with other countries allowing each other's citizens to travel between them without visas (for example, Switzerland is part of a Schengen Agreement allowing easy travel for people from countries within the European Union). The World Tourism Organization announced that the number of tourists who require a visa before traveling was at its lowest level ever in 2015.[112]

Immigration is the international movement of people into a destination country of which they are not natives or where they do not possess citizenship in order to settle or reside there, especially as permanent residents or naturalized citizens, or to take-up employment as a migrant worker or temporarily as a foreign worker.[113][114][115] According to the International Labour Organization, as of 2014 there were an estimated 232 million international migrants in the world (defined as persons outside their country of origin for 12 months or more) and approximately half of them were estimated to be economically active (i.e. being employed or seeking employment).[116] International movement of labor is often seen as important to economic development. For example, freedom of movement for workers in the European Union means that people can move freely between member states to live, work, study or retire in another country.


2010 London Youth Games opening ceremony. About 69% of children born in London in 2015 had at least one parent who was born abroad.[117]
Globalization is associated with a dramatic rise in international education. The development of global cross-cultural competence in the workforce through ad-hoc training has deserved increasing attention in recent times.[118][119] More and more students are seeking higher education in foreign countries and many international students now consider overseas study a stepping-stone to permanent residency within a country.[120] The contributions that foreign students make to host nation economies, both culturally and financially has encouraged major players to implement further initiatives to facilitate the arrival and integration of overseas students, including substantial amendments to immigration and visa policies and procedures.[43]

A transnational marriage is a marriage between two people from different countries. A variety of special issues arise in marriages between people from different countries, including those related to citizenship and culture, which add complexity and challenges to these kinds of relationships. In an age of increasing globalization, where a growing number of people have ties to networks of people and places across the globe, rather than to a current geographic location, people are increasingly marrying across national boundaries. Transnational marriage is a by-product of the movement and migration of people.

Movement of information
Edit
See also: Internet
Internet users by region[121]
Region	2005	2010	2017	2019	2021
Africa	2%	10%	21.8%	27.7%	39.7%
Americas	36%	49%	65.9%	75.9%	83.2%
Arab States	8%	26%	43.7%	55.2%	70.3%
Asia and Pacific	9%	23%	43.9%	48.9%	64.3%
Commonwealth of
Independent States	10%	34%	67.7%	76.3%	83.7%
Europe	46%	67%	79.6%	81.7%	89.5%

The global digital divide: Computers per 100 people per 2006
Before electronic communications, long-distance communications relied on mail. Speed of global communications was limited by the maximum speed of courier services (especially horses and ships) until the mid-19th century. The electric telegraph was the first method of instant long-distance communication. For example, before the first transatlantic cable, communications between Europe and the Americas took weeks because ships had to carry mail across the ocean. The first transatlantic cable reduced communication time considerably, allowing a message and a response in the same day. Lasting transatlantic telegraph connections were achieved in the 1865–1866. The first wireless telegraphy transmitters were developed in 1895.

The Internet has been instrumental in connecting people across geographical boundaries. For example, Facebook is a social networking service which has more than 1.65 billion monthly active users as of 31 March 2016.[122]

Globalization can be spread by Global journalism which provides massive information and relies on the internet to interact, "makes it into an everyday routine to investigate how people and their actions, practices, problems, life conditions, etc. in different parts of the world are interrelated. possible to assume that global threats such as climate change precipitate the further establishment of global journalism."[123]

Globalization and disease
Edit
Main article: Globalization and disease
See also: Virgin soil epidemic, Wildlife smuggling and zoonoses, Emerging infectious disease, and Pandemic
In the current era of globalization, the world is more interdependent than at any other time. Efficient and inexpensive transportation has left few places inaccessible, and increased global trade has brought more and more people into contact with animal diseases that have subsequently jumped species barriers (see zoonosis).[124]

Coronavirus disease 2019, abbreviated COVID-19, first appeared in Wuhan, China in November 2019. More than 180 countries have reported cases since then.[125] As of April 6, 2020, the U.S. has the most confirmed active cases in the world.[126] More than 3.4 million people from the worst-affected countries entered the U.S. in the first three months since the inception of the COVID-19 pandemic.[127] This has caused a detrimental impact on the global economy, particularly for SME's and Microbusinesses with unlimited liability/self-employed, leaving them vulnerable to financial difficulties, increasing the market share for oligopolistic markets as well as increasing the barriers of entry.

Measurement
Edit
See also: List of globalization-related indices
One index of globalization is the KOF Index of Globalization, which measures three important dimensions of globalization: economic, social, and political.[128] Another is the A.T. Kearney / Foreign Policy Magazine Globalization Index.[129]


2014 KOF Index of Globalization
Rank	Country
1	Ireland
2	Belgium
3	Netherlands
4	Austria
5	Singapore
6	Denmark
7	Sweden
8	Portugal
9	Hungary
10	Finland
 	
2006 A.T. Kearney / Foreign Policy Magazine
Globalization Index
Rank	Country
1	Singapore
2	Switzerland
3	United States
4	Ireland
5	Denmark
6	Canada
7	Netherlands
8	Australia
9	Austria
10	Sweden
Measurements of economic globalization typically focus on variables such as trade, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), Gross Domestic Product (GDP), portfolio investment, and income. However, newer indices attempt to measure globalization in more general terms, including variables related to political, social, cultural, and even environmental aspects of globalization.[130][131]

The DHL Global Connectedness Index studies four main types of cross-border flow: trade (in both goods and services), information, people (including tourists, students, and migrants), and capital. It shows that the depth of global integration fell by about one-tenth after 2008, but by 2013 had recovered well above its pre-crash peak.[18][54] The report also found a shift of economic activity to emerging economies.[18]

Support and criticism
Edit
See also: Criticisms of globalization
Reactions to processes contributing to globalization have varied widely with a history as long as extraterritorial contact and trade. Philosophical differences regarding the costs and benefits of such processes give rise to a broad-range of ideologies and social movements. Proponents of economic growth, expansion and development, in general, view globalizing processes as desirable or necessary to the well-being of human society.[132]

Antagonists view one or more globalizing processes as detrimental to social well-being on a global or local scale;[132] this includes those who focus on social or natural sustainability of long-term and continuous economic expansion, the social structural inequality caused by these processes, and the colonial, imperialistic, or hegemonic ethnocentrism, cultural assimilation and cultural appropriation that underlie such processes.

Globalization tends to bring people into contact with foreign people and cultures. Xenophobia is the fear of that which is perceived to be foreign or strange.[133][134] Xenophobia can manifest itself in many ways involving the relations and perceptions of an ingroup towards an outgroup, including a fear of losing identity, suspicion of its activities, aggression, and desire to eliminate its presence to secure a presumed purity.[135]


The European Union–Mercosur free trade agreement, which would form one of the world's largest free trade areas, has been denounced by environmental activists and indigenous rights campaigners.
Critiques of globalization generally stem from discussions surrounding the impact of such processes on the planet as well as the human costs. They challenge directly traditional metrics, such as GDP, and look to other measures, such as the Gini coefficient[136] or the Happy Planet Index,[137] and point to a "multitude of interconnected fatal consequences–social disintegration, a breakdown of democracy, more rapid and extensive deterioration of the environment, the spread of new diseases, increasing poverty and alienation"[138] which they claim are the unintended consequences of globalization. Others point out that, while the forces of globalization have led to the spread of western-style democracy, this has been accompanied by an increase in inter-ethnic tension and violence as free market economic policies combine with democratic processes of universal suffrage as well as an escalation in militarization to impose democratic principles and as a means to conflict resolution.[139]

On 9 August 2019, Pope Francis denounced isolationism and hinted that the Catholic Church will embrace globalization at the October 2019 Amazonia Synod, stating "the whole is greater than the parts. Globalization and unity should not be conceived as a sphere, but as a polyhedron: each people retains its identity in unity with others"[140]

Public opinion
Edit
As a complex and multifaceted phenomenon, globalization is considered by some as a form of capitalist expansion which entails the integration of local and national economies into a global, unregulated market economy.[141] A 2005 study by Peer Fis and Paul Hirsch found a large increase in articles negative towards globalization in the years prior. In 1998, negative articles outpaced positive articles by two to one.[142] The number of newspaper articles showing negative framing rose from about 10% of the total in 1991 to 55% of the total in 1999. This increase occurred during a period when the total number of articles concerning globalization nearly doubled.[142]

A number of international polls have shown that residents of Africa and Asia tend to view globalization more favorably than residents of Europe or North America. In Africa, a Gallup poll found that 70% of the population views globalization favorably.[143] The BBC found that 50% of people believed that economic globalization was proceeding too rapidly, while 35% believed it was proceeding too slowly.[144]

In 2004, Philip Gordon stated that "a clear majority of Europeans believe that globalization can enrich their lives, while believing the European Union can help them take advantage of globalization's benefits while shielding them from its negative effects." The main opposition consisted of socialists, environmental groups, and nationalists. Residents of the EU did not appear to feel threatened by globalization in 2004. The EU job market was more stable and workers were less likely to accept wage/benefit cuts. Social spending was much higher than in the US.[145] In a Danish poll in 2007, 76% responded that globalization is a good thing.[146]

Fiss, et al., surveyed US opinion in 1993. Their survey showed that, in 1993, more than 40% of respondents were unfamiliar with the concept of globalization. When the survey was repeated in 1998, 89% of the respondents had a polarized view of globalization as being either good or bad. At the same time, discourse on globalization, which began in the financial community before shifting to a heated debate between proponents and disenchanted students and workers. Polarization increased dramatically after the establishment of the WTO in 1995; this event and subsequent protests led to a large-scale anti-globalization movement.[142] Initially, college educated workers were likely to support globalization. Less educated workers, who were more likely to compete with immigrants and workers in developing countries, tended to be opponents. The situation changed after the financial crisis of 2007. According to a 1997 poll 58% of college graduates said globalization had been good for the US. By 2008 only 33% thought it was good. Respondents with high school education also became more opposed.[147]

According to Takenaka Heizo and Chida Ryokichi, as of 1998 there was a perception in Japan that the economy was "Small and Frail". However, Japan was resource-poor and used exports to pay for its raw materials. Anxiety over their position caused terms such as internationalization and globalization to enter everyday language. However, Japanese tradition was to be as self-sufficient as possible, particularly in agriculture.[148]

Many in developing countries see globalization as a positive force that lifts them out of poverty.[149] Those opposing globalization typically combine environmental concerns with nationalism. Opponents consider governments as agents of neo-colonialism that are subservient to multinational corporations.[150] Much of this criticism comes from the middle class; the Brookings Institution suggested this was because the middle class perceived upwardly mobile low-income groups as threatening to their economic security.[151]

Economics
Edit

Hu Jintao of China and George W. Bush meet while attending an APEC summit in Santiago de Chile, 2004.
The literature analyzing the economics of free trade is extremely rich with extensive work having been done on the theoretical and empirical effects. Though it creates winners and losers, the broad consensus among economists is that free trade is a large and unambiguous net gain for society.[152][153] In a 2006 survey of 83 American economists, "87.5% agree that the U.S. should eliminate remaining tariffs and other barriers to trade" and "90.1% disagree with the suggestion that the U.S. should restrict employers from outsourcing work to foreign countries."[154]

Quoting Harvard economics professor N. Gregory Mankiw, "Few propositions command as much consensus among professional economists as that open world trade increases economic growth and raises living standards."[155] In a survey of leading economists, none disagreed with the notion that "freer trade improves productive efficiency and offers consumers better choices, and in the long run these gains are much larger than any effects on employment."[156] Most economists would agree that although increasing returns to scale might mean that certain industry could settle in a geographical area without any strong economic reason derived from comparative advantage, this is not a reason to argue against free trade because the absolute level of output enjoyed by both "winner" and "loser" will increase with the "winner" gaining more than the "loser" but both gaining more than before in an absolute level.

In the book The End of Poverty, Jeffrey Sachs discusses how many factors can affect a country's ability to enter the world market, including government corruption; legal and social disparities based on gender, ethnicity, or caste; diseases such as AIDS and malaria; lack of infrastructure (including transportation, communications, health, and trade); unstable political landscapes; protectionism; and geographic barriers.[157] Jagdish Bhagwati, a former adviser to the U.N. on globalization, holds that, although there are obvious problems with overly rapid development, globalization is a very positive force that lifts countries out of poverty by causing a virtuous economic cycle associated with faster economic growth.[149] However, economic growth does not necessarily mean a reduction in poverty; in fact, the two can coexist. Economic growth is conventionally measured using indicators such as GDP and GNI that do not accurately reflect the growing disparities in wealth.[158] Additionally, Oxfam International argues that poor people are often excluded from globalization-induced opportunities "by a lack of productive assets, weak infrastructure, poor education and ill-health;"[159] effectively leaving these marginalized groups in a poverty trap. Economist Paul Krugman is another staunch supporter of globalization and free trade with a record of disagreeing with many critics of globalization. He argues that many of them lack a basic understanding of comparative advantage and its importance in today's world.[160]


As of 2017, there were 2,754 U.S. dollar billionaires worldwide, with a combined wealth of over US$9.2 trillion.[161]
The flow of migrants to advanced economies has been claimed to provide a means through which global wages converge. An IMF study noted a potential for skills to be transferred back to developing countries as wages in those a countries rise.[10] Lastly, the dissemination of knowledge has been an integral aspect of globalization. Technological innovations (or technological transfer) are conjectured to benefit most developing and least developing countries (LDCs), as for example in the adoption of mobile phones.[50]

There has been a rapid economic growth in Asia after embracing market orientation-based economic policies that encourage private property rights, free enterprise and competition. In particular, in East Asian developing countries, GDP per head rose at 5.9% a year from 1975 to 2001 (according to 2003 Human Development Report[162] of UNDP). Like this, the British economic journalist Martin Wolf says that incomes of poor developing countries, with more than half the world's population, grew substantially faster than those of the world's richest countries that remained relatively stable in its growth, leading to reduced international inequality and the incidence of poverty.


Of the factors influencing the duration of economic growth in both developed and developing countries, income equality has a more beneficial impact than trade openness, sound political institutions, and foreign investment.[163]
Certain demographic changes in the developing world after active economic liberalization and international integration resulted in rising general welfare and, hence, reduced inequality. According to Wolf, in the developing world as a whole, life expectancy rose by four months each year after 1970 and infant mortality rate declined from 107 per thousand in 1970 to 58 in 2000 due to improvements in standards of living and health conditions. Also, adult literacy in developing countries rose from 53% in 1970 to 74% in 1998 and much lower illiteracy rate among the young guarantees that rates will continue to fall as time passes. Furthermore, the reduction in fertility rate in the developing world as a whole from 4.1 births per woman in 1980 to 2.8 in 2000 indicates improved education level of women on fertility, and control of fewer children with more parental attention and investment.[164] Consequently, more prosperous and educated parents with fewer children have chosen to withdraw their children from the labor force to give them opportunities to be educated at school improving the issue of child labor. Thus, despite seemingly unequal distribution of income within these developing countries, their economic growth and development have brought about improved standards of living and welfare for the population as a whole.

Per capita gross domestic product (GDP) growth among post-1980 globalizing countries accelerated from 1.4 percent a year in the 1960s and 2.9 percent a year in the 1970s to 3.5 percent in the 1980s and 5.0 percent in the 1990s. This acceleration in growth seems even more remarkable given that the rich countries saw steady declines in growth from a high of 4.7 percent in the 1960s to 2.2 percent in the 1990s. Also, the non-globalizing developing countries seem to fare worse than the globalizers, with the former's annual growth rates falling from highs of 3.3 percent during the 1970s to only 1.4 percent during the 1990s. This rapid growth among the globalizers is not simply due to the strong performances of China and India in the 1980s and 1990s—18 out of the 24 globalizers experienced increases in growth, many of them quite substantial.[165]


Worlds regions by total wealth (in trillions USD), 2018
The globalization of the late 20th and early 21st centuries has led to the resurfacing of the idea that the growth of economic interdependence promotes peace.[166] This idea had been very powerful during the globalization of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and was a central doctrine of classical liberals of that era, such as the young John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946).[167]

Some opponents of globalization see the phenomenon as a promotion of corporate interests.[168] They also claim that the increasing autonomy and strength of corporate entities shapes the political policy of countries.[169][170] They advocate global institutions and policies that they believe better address the moral claims of poor and working classes as well as environmental concerns.[171] Economic arguments by fair trade theorists claim that unrestricted free trade benefits those with more financial leverage (i.e. the rich) at the expense of the poor.[172]

Globalization allows corporations to outsource manufacturing and service jobs from high cost locations, creating economic opportunities with the most competitive wages and worker benefits.[67] Critics of globalization say that it disadvantages poorer countries. While it is true that free trade encourages globalization among countries, some countries try to protect their domestic suppliers. The main export of poorer countries is usually agricultural productions. Larger countries often subsidize their farmers (e.g., the EU's Common Agricultural Policy), which lowers the market price for foreign crops.[173]

Global democracy
Edit
Main article: Democratic globalization
Democratic globalization is a movement towards an institutional system of global democracy that would give world citizens a say in political organizations. This would, in their view, bypass nation-states, corporate oligopolies, ideological non-governmental organizations (NGO), political cults and mafias. One of its most prolific proponents is the British political thinker David Held. Advocates of democratic globalization argue that economic expansion and development should be the first phase of democratic globalization, which is to be followed by a phase of building global political institutions. Francesco Stipo, Director of the United States Association of the Club of Rome, advocates unifying nations under a world government, suggesting that it "should reflect the political and economic balances of world nations. A world confederation would not supersede the authority of the State governments but rather complement it, as both the States and the world authority would have power within their sphere of competence".[174] Former Canadian Senator Douglas Roche, O.C., viewed globalization as inevitable and advocated creating institutions such as a directly elected United Nations Parliamentary Assembly to exercise oversight over unelected international bodies.[175]

Global civics
Edit
Main articles: Global civics and Multiculturalism
See also: Global citizenship
Global civics suggests that civics can be understood, in a global sense, as a social contract between global citizens in the age of interdependence and interaction. The disseminators of the concept define it as the notion that we have certain rights and responsibilities towards each other by the mere fact of being human on Earth.[176] World citizen has a variety of similar meanings, often referring to a person who disapproves of traditional geopolitical divisions derived from national citizenship. An early incarnation of this sentiment can be found in Socrates, whom Plutarch quoted as saying: "I am not an Athenian, or a Greek, but a citizen of the world."[177] In an increasingly interdependent world, world citizens need a compass to frame their mindsets and create a shared consciousness and sense of global responsibility in world issues such as environmental problems and nuclear proliferation.[178]

Baha'i-inspired author Meyjes, while favoring the single world community and emergent global consciousness, warns of globalization[179] as a cloak for an expeditious economic, social, and cultural Anglo-dominance that is insufficiently inclusive to inform the emergence of an optimal world civilization. He proposes a process of "universalization" as an alternative.

Cosmopolitanism is the proposal that all human ethnic groups belong to a single community based on a shared morality. A person who adheres to the idea of cosmopolitanism in any of its forms is called a cosmopolitan or cosmopolite.[180] A cosmopolitan community might be based on an inclusive morality, a shared economic relationship, or a political structure that encompasses different nations. The cosmopolitan community is one in which individuals from different places (e.g. nation-states) form relationships based on mutual respect. For instance, Kwame Anthony Appiah suggests the possibility of a cosmopolitan community in which individuals from varying locations (physical, economic, etc.) enter relationships of mutual respect despite their differing beliefs (religious, political, etc.).[181]

Canadian philosopher Marshall McLuhan popularized the term Global Village beginning in 1962.[182] His view suggested that globalization would lead to a world where people from all countries will become more integrated and aware of common interests and shared humanity.[183]

International cooperation
Edit

Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev after signing the New START treaty in Prague, 2010
Military cooperation – Past examples of international cooperation exist. One example is the security cooperation between the United States and the former Soviet Union after the end of the Cold War, which astonished international society. Arms control and disarmament agreements, including the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (see START I, START II, START III, and New START) and the establishment of NATO's Partnership for Peace, the Russia NATO Council, and the G8 Global Partnership against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, constitute concrete initiatives of arms control and de-nuclearization. The US–Russian cooperation was further strengthened by anti-terrorism agreements enacted in the wake of 9/11.[184]

Environmental cooperation – One of the biggest successes of environmental cooperation has been the agreement to reduce chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) emissions, as specified in the Montreal Protocol, in order to stop ozone depletion. The most recent debate around nuclear energy and the non-alternative coal-burning power plants constitutes one more consensus on what not to do. Thirdly, significant achievements in IC can be observed through development studies.[184]

Economic cooperation – One of the biggest challenges in 2019 with globalization is that many believe the progress made in the past decades are now back tracking. The back tracking of globalization has coined the term "Slobalization." Slobalization is a new, slower pattern of globalization.[185]

Anti-globalization movement
Edit
Main article: Anti-globalization movement

Anti-TTIP demonstration in Hannover, Germany, 2016
Anti-globalization, or counter-globalization,[186] consists of a number of criticisms of globalization but, in general, is critical of the globalization of corporate capitalism.[187] The movement is also commonly referred to as the alter-globalization movement, anti-globalist movement, anti-corporate globalization movement,[188] or movement against neoliberal globalization. Opponents of globalization argue that power and respect in terms of international trade between the developed and underdeveloped countries of the world are unequally distributed.[189] The diverse subgroups that make up this movement include some of the following: trade unionists, environmentalists, anarchists, land rights and indigenous rights activists, organizations promoting human rights and sustainable development, opponents of privatization, and anti-sweatshop campaigners.[190]

In The Revolt of the Elites and the Betrayal of Democracy, Christopher Lasch analyzes[191] the widening gap between the top and bottom of the social composition in the United States. For him, our epoch is determined by a social phenomenon: the revolt of the elites, in reference to The Revolt of the Masses (1929) by the Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset. According to Lasch, the new elites, i.e. those who are in the top 20% in terms of income, through globalization which allows total mobility of capital, no longer live in the same world as their fellow-citizens. In this, they oppose the old bourgeoisie of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, which was constrained by its spatial stability to a minimum of rooting and civic obligations. Globalization, according to the sociologist, has turned elites into tourists in their own countries. The denationalization of business enterprise tends to produce a class who see themselves as "world citizens, but without accepting ... any of the obligations that citizenship in a polity normally implies". Their ties to an international culture of work, leisure, information – make many of them deeply indifferent to the prospect of national decline. Instead of financing public services and the public treasury, new elites are investing their money in improving their voluntary ghettos: private schools in their residential neighborhoods, private police, garbage collection systems. They have "withdrawn from common life". Composed of those who control the international flows of capital and information, who preside over philanthropic foundations and institutions of higher education, manage the instruments of cultural production and thus fix the terms of public debate. So, the political debate is limited mainly to the dominant classes and political ideologies lose all contact with the concerns of the ordinary citizen. The result of this is that no one has a likely solution to these problems and that there are furious ideological battles on related issues. However, they remain protected from the problems affecting the working classes: the decline of industrial activity, the resulting loss of employment, the decline of the middle class, increasing the number of the poor, the rising crime rate, growing drug trafficking, the urban crisis.

D.A. Snow et al. contend that the anti-globalization movement is an example of a new social movement, which uses tactics that are unique and use different resources than previously used before in other social movements.[192]

One of the most infamous tactics of the movement is the Battle of Seattle in 1999, where there were protests against the World Trade Organization's Third Ministerial Meeting. All over the world, the movement has held protests outside meetings of institutions such as the WTO, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, the World Economic Forum, and the Group of Eight (G8).[190] Within the Seattle demonstrations the protesters that participated used both creative and violent tactics to gain the attention towards the issue of globalization.

Opposition to capital market integration
Edit
Main article: Anti-capitalist movements

World Bank Protester, Jakarta, Indonesia
Capital markets have to do with raising and investing money in various human enterprises. Increasing integration of these financial markets between countries leads to the emergence of a global capital marketplace or a single world market. In the long run, increased movement of capital between countries tends to favor owners of capital more than any other group; in the short run, owners and workers in specific sectors in capital-exporting countries bear much of the burden of adjusting to increased movement of capital.[193]

Those opposed to capital market integration on the basis of human rights issues are especially disturbed[according to whom?] by the various abuses which they think are perpetuated by global and international institutions that, they say, promote neoliberalism without regard to ethical standards. Common targets include the World Bank (WB), International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) and free trade treaties like the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), the Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI) and the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS). In light of the economic gap between rich and poor countries, movement adherents claim free trade without measures in place to protect the under-capitalized will contribute only to the strengthening the power of industrialized nations (often termed the "North" in opposition to the developing world's "South").[194][better source needed]

Anti-corporatism and anti-consumerism
Edit
Main articles: Anti-corporatism and Anti-consumerism
Corporatist ideology, which privileges the rights of corporations (artificial or juridical persons) over those of natural persons, is an underlying factor in the recent rapid expansion of global commerce.[195] In recent years, there have been an increasing number of books (Naomi Klein's 2000 No Logo, for example) and films (e.g. The Corporation & Surplus) popularizing an anti-corporate ideology to the public.

A related contemporary ideology, consumerism, which encourages the personal acquisition of goods and services, also drives globalization.[196] Anti-consumerism is a social movement against equating personal happiness with consumption and the purchase of material possessions. Concern over the treatment of consumers by large corporations has spawned substantial activism, and the incorporation of consumer education into school curricula. Social activists hold materialism is connected to global retail merchandizing and supplier convergence, war, greed, anomie, crime, environmental degradation, and general social malaise and discontent. One variation on this topic is activism by postconsumers, with the strategic emphasis on moving beyond addictive consumerism.[197]

Global justice and inequality
Edit
Global justice
Edit
Main article: Global justice movement

Differences in national income equality around the world as measured by the national Gini coefficient, as of 2018[198]
The global justice movement is the loose collection of individuals and groups—often referred to as a "movement of movements"—who advocate fair trade rules and perceive current institutions of global economic integration as problems.[199] The movement is often labeled an anti-globalization movement by the mainstream media. Those involved, however, frequently deny that they are anti-globalization, insisting that they support the globalization of communication and people and oppose only the global expansion of corporate power.[200] The movement is based in the idea of social justice, desiring the creation of a society or institution based on the principles of equality and solidarity, the values of human rights, and the dignity of every human being.[201][202][203] Social inequality within and between nations, including a growing global digital divide, is a focal point of the movement. Many nongovernmental organizations have now arisen to fight these inequalities that many in Latin America, Africa and Asia face. A few very popular and well known non-governmental organizations (NGOs) include: War Child, Red Cross, Free The Children and CARE International. They often create partnerships where they work towards improving the lives of those who live in developing countries by building schools, fixing infrastructure, cleaning water supplies, purchasing equipment and supplies for hospitals, and other aid efforts.


Countries by total wealth (trillions USD), Credit Suisse
Social inequality
Edit
Main articles: Social inequality and International inequality

Global share of wealth by wealth group, Credit Suisse, 2017
The economies of the world have developed unevenly, historically, such that entire geographical regions were left mired in poverty and disease while others began to reduce poverty and disease on a wholesale basis. From around 1980 through at least 2011, the GDP gap, while still wide, appeared to be closing and, in some more rapidly developing countries, life expectancies began to rise.[204] If we look at the Gini coefficient for world income, since the late 1980s, the gap between some regions has markedly narrowed—between Asia and the advanced economies of the West, for example—but huge gaps remain globally. Overall equality across humanity, considered as individuals, has improved very little. Within the decade between 2003 and 2013, income inequality grew even in traditionally egalitarian countries like Germany, Sweden and Denmark. With a few exceptions—France, Japan, Spain—the top 10 percent of earners in most advanced economies raced ahead, while the bottom 10 percent fell further behind.[205] By 2013, 85 multibillionaires had amassed wealth equivalent to all the wealth owned by the poorest half (3.5 billion) of the world's total population of 7 billion.[206]

Critics of globalization argue that globalization results in weak labor unions: the surplus in cheap labor coupled with an ever-growing number of companies in transition weakened labor unions in high-cost areas. Unions become less effective and workers their enthusiasm for unions when membership begins to decline.[173] They also cite an increase in the exploitation of child labor: countries with weak protections for children are vulnerable to infestation by rogue companies and criminal gangs who exploit them. Examples include quarrying, salvage, and farm work as well as trafficking, bondage, forced labor, prostitution and pornography.[207]


Immigrant rights march for amnesty, Los Angeles, on May Day, 2006
Women often participate in the workforce in precarious work, including export-oriented employment. Evidence suggests that while globalization has expanded women's access to employment, the long-term goal of transforming gender inequalities remains unmet and appears unattainable without regulation of capital and a reorientation and expansion of the state's role in funding public goods and providing a social safety net.[208] Furthermore, the intersectionality of gender, race, class, and more remain overlooked when assessing the impact of globalization.[209]

In 2016, a study published by the IMF posited that neoliberalism, the ideological backbone of contemporary globalized capitalism, has been "oversold", with the benefits of neoliberal policies being "fairly difficult to establish when looking at a broad group of countries" and the costs, most significantly higher income inequality within nations, "hurt the level and sustainability of growth."[210]

Anti-global governance
Edit
Main article: Global governance
Beginning in the 1930s, opposition arose to the idea of a world government, as advocated by organizations such as the World Federalist Movement (WFM). Those who oppose global governance typically do so on objections that the idea is unfeasible, inevitably oppressive, or simply unnecessary.[211] In general, these opponents are wary of the concentration of power or wealth that such governance might represent. Such reasoning dates back to the founding of the League of Nations and, later, the United Nations.

Environmentalist opposition
Edit

Deforestation of the Madagascar Highland Plateau has led to extensive siltation and unstable flows of western rivers.

a shows carbon footprint (CF) hotspots of foreign final consumption in China. b–d show carbon footprint hotspots of the consumption of the United States, Hong Kong, and Japan, respectively. Among all foreign regions, the United States, Hong Kong, and Japan have the largest CFs in China, contributing ~23.0%, 10.8%, and 9.0%, respectively, to the total foreign CF in China in 2012.
Main article: Environmentalism
See also: Climate change and Deforestation
Environmentalism is a broad philosophy, ideology[212][213][214] and social movement regarding concerns for environmental conservation and improvement of the health of the environment. Environmentalist concerns with globalization include issues such as global warming, global water supply and water crises, inequity in energy consumption and energy conservation, transnational air pollution and pollution of the world ocean, overpopulation, world habitat sustainability, deforestation, biodiversity loss and species extinction.

One critique of globalization is that natural resources of the poor have been systematically taken over by the rich and the pollution promulgated by the rich is systematically dumped on the poor.[215] Some argue that Northern corporations are increasingly exploiting resources of less wealthy countries for their global activities while it is the South that is disproportionately bearing the environmental burden of the globalized economy. Globalization is thus leading to a type of" environmental apartheid".[216]

Helena Norberg-Hodge, the director and founder of Local Futures/International Society for Ecology and Culture, criticizes globalization in many ways. In her book Ancient Futures, Norberg-Hodge claims that "centuries of ecological balance and social harmony are under threat from the pressures of development and globalization." She also criticizes the standardization and rationalization of globalization, as it does not always yield the expected growth outcomes. Although globalization takes similar steps in most countries, scholars such as Hodge claim that it might not be effective to certain countries and that globalization has actually moved some countries backward instead of developing them.[217]

A related area of concern is the pollution haven hypothesis, which posits that, when large industrialized nations seek to set up factories or offices abroad, they will often look for the cheapest option in terms of resources and labor that offers the land and material access they require (see Race to the bottom).[218] This often comes at the cost of environmentally sound practices. Developing countries with cheap resources and labor tend to have less stringent environmental regulations, and conversely, nations with stricter environmental regulations become more expensive for companies as a result of the costs associated with meeting these standards. Thus, companies that choose to physically invest in foreign countries tend to (re)locate to the countries with the lowest environmental standards or weakest enforcement.

The European Union–Mercosur Free Trade Agreement, which would form one of the world's largest free trade areas,[219] has been denounced by environmental activists and indigenous rights campaigners.[220] The fear is that the deal could lead to more deforestation of the Amazon rainforest as it expands market access to Brazilian beef.[221]

Food security
Edit
Main article: Food security
Globalization is associated with a more efficient system of food production. This is because crops are grown in countries with optimum growing conditions. This improvement causes an increase in the world's food supply which encourages improved food security.[222] The political movement 'BREXIT' was considered a step back in globalisation; it has greatly disrupted food chains within the UK, as they import 26% of food produce from the EU.

Norway
Edit
Norway's limited crop range advocates globalization of food production and availability. The northernmost country in Europe requires trade with other countries to ensure population food demands are met. The degree of self-sufficiency in food production is around 50% in Norway.[223]

See also
Edit
icon	Business portal
	World portal
Civilizing mission
Cosmopolitanism
Deglobalization
Environmental racism
Eurasianism
Franchising
Free trade
Global civics
Global commons
Global mobility
Globalism
Global public goods
List of bilateral free-trade agreements
List of globalization-related indices
List of multilateral free-trade agreements
Middle East and globalization
Neorealism (international relations)
North–South divide
Outline of globalization
Postdevelopment theory
Technocapitalism
The No-Nonsense Guide to Globalization
Transnational cinema
Transnational citizenship
Triadization
United Nations Millennium Declaration
Vermeer's Hat
World Englishes
Global regionalization
References
Edit
 James, Paul; Steger, Manfred B. (2014). "A Genealogy of globalization: The career of a concept". Globalizations. 11 (4): 417–34. doi:10.1080/14747731.2014.951186. S2CID 18739651.
 Albrow, Martin; King, Elizabeth (1990). Globalization, Knowledge and Society. London: Sage. ISBN 0-8039-8323-9. OCLC 22593547.
 Read "Following the Money: U.S. Finance in the World Economy" at NAP.edu. 1995. doi:10.17226/2134. ISBN 978-0-309-04883-5.
 "Imagining the Internet". History of Information Technologies. Elon University School of Communications. Archived from the original on 23 March 2009. Retrieved 17 August 2009.
 Stever, H. Guyford (1972). "Science, Systems, and Society". Journal of Cybernetics. 2 (3): 1–3. doi:10.1080/01969727208542909.
 Wolf, Martin (September 2014). "Shaping Globalization" (PDF). Finance & Development. International Monetary Fund. 51 (3): 22–25. Archived (PDF) from the original on 22 September 2018. Retrieved 10 August 2015.
 Frank, Andre Gunder. (1998). ReOrient: Global economy in the Asian age. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-21474-3
 H., O'Rourke, Kevin; G., Williamson, Jeffrey (1 April 2002). "When did globalisation begin?". European Review of Economic History. 6 (1): 23–50. doi:10.1017/S1361491602000023. ISSN 1361-4916. S2CID 15767303.
 Sassen, Saskia - The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo. Archived 16 March 2015 at the Wayback Machine (1991) - Princeton University Press. ISBN 0-691-07063-6
 "Globalization: Threat or Opportunity?". International Monetary Fund. 12 April 2000. Archived from the original on 18 August 2017. Retrieved 28 November 2019.
 Babones, Salvatore (2008). "Studying Globalization: Methodological Issues". In Ritzer, George (ed.). The Blackwell Companion to Globalization. Malden: John Wiley & Sons. p. 146. ISBN 978-0-470-76642-2. OCLC 232611725.
 Hopkins, Antony G., ed. (2002). Globalization in World History. New York: Norton. pp. 4–8. ISBN 0-393-97942-3. OCLC 50028410.
 Bakari, Mohamed El-Kamel (2013). "Globalization and Sustainable Development: False Twins?". New Global Studies. 7 (3): 23–56. doi:10.1515/ngs-2013-021. ISSN 1940-0004. S2CID 154786395.
 Karl Marx; Friedrich Engels (2017). "Manifesto of the Communist Party". The Communist Manifesto (PDF). Pluto Press. pp. 47–103. doi:10.2307/j.ctt1k85dmc.4. ISBN 978-1-78680-025-1. JSTOR j.ctt1k85dmc. S2CID 53056560.
 Giddens, Anthony (1990). The Consequences of Modernity. Cambridge: Polity Press. p. 64. ISBN 0-7456-0793-4. OCLC 22305142.
 Robertson, Roland (1992). Globalization: Social Theory and Global Culture (Reprint. ed.). London: Sage. ISBN 978-0-8039-8187-4. OCLC 28634687.
 Held, David; Goldblatt, David; McGrew, Anthony; Perraton, Jonathan (1999). Global Transformations Cambridge: Polity Press. ISBN 978-0-7456-1498-4
 "DHL Global Connectedness Index 2014" (PDF). DHL. 11 March 2014. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 February 2015. Retrieved 31 March 2015.
 Larsson, Thomas. (2001). The Race to the Top: The Real Story of Globalization Washington, DC: Cato Institute. p. 9. ISBN 978-1-930865-15-0
 James, Paul (2005). "Arguing Globalizations: Propositions Towards an Investigation of Global Formation". Globalizations. 2 (2): 193–209. doi:10.1080/14747730500202206. S2CID 146553776.
 Steger, Manfred (2009). Globalization: A Very Short Introduction. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 11. ISBN 978-0-19-955226-9.
 Manfred B. Steger; Paul James (2013). "Levels of Subjective Globalization: Ideologies, Imaginaries, Ontologies". Perspectives on Global Development and Technology. 12 (1–2).
 James, Paul (2014). "Faces of Globalization and the Borders of States: From Asylum Seekers to Citizens". Citizenship Studies. 18 (2): 208–23. doi:10.1080/13621025.2014.886440. S2CID 144816686.
 Friedman, Thomas L. "The Dell Theory of Conflict Prevention". Emerging: A Reader. Ed. Barclay Barrios. Boston: Bedford, St. Martins, 2008. 49
 Fotopoulos, Takis. (2001). "Globalization, the reformist Left and the Anti-Globalization 'Movement.'" Democracy & Nature: The International Journal of Inclusive Democracy, 7:(2) (July 2001). Archived 26 April 2009 at the Wayback Machine
 Lechner, Frank J.; Boli, John, eds. (2012). The Globalization Reader (4th ed.). Chichester: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0-470-65563-4. OCLC 723530747.
 Henwood, Doug (13 November 2003). "Beyond Globophobia". The Nation. ISSN 0027-8378. Archived from the original on 29 October 2014.
 Clark, Ross (20 March 2004). "Globophobia". The Spectator. Archived from the original on 22 December 2014. Retrieved 29 October 2014.
 Ritzer, George, ed. (2008). The Blackwell Companion to Globalization. Malden: John Wiley & Sons. pp. 16–. ISBN 978-0-470-76642-2. OCLC 232611725.
 O'Rourke, Kevin H.; Williamson, Jeffrey G. (2002). "When Did Globalization Begin?". European Review of Economic History. 6 (1): 23–50. doi:10.1017/S1361491602000023. S2CID 15767303.
 Martell, Luke (2010). The Sociology of Globalization. Policy Press.
 Kochler, Hans (2000). Globality versus Democracy: The Changing Nature of International Relations in the Era of Globalization. Vienna: International Progress Organization. p. 35.
 Jerry Bentley, Old World Encounters: Cross-Cultural Contacts and Exchanges in Pre-Modern Times (New York: Oxford University Press, 1993), 32.
 Jerry Bentley, Old World Encounters: Cross-Cultural Contacts and Exchanges in Pre-Modern Times (New York: Oxford University Press, 1993), 33.
 "The Legacy of the Silk Road". Yale Global. 25 January 2013. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 31 March 2015.
 Hopkins, A.G., ed., 2003. Globalization in World History. New York City: Norton. ISBN 0-393-97942-3 pp. 4–5, 7
 Chaudhuri, K.N. (1965\1999). The English East India Company: The Study of an Early Joint-stock Company 1600–1640 (Vol. 4). London: Routledge/Thoemmes Press.
 China and the Birth of Globalization in the 16th Century, by Dennis O. Flynn and Arturo Giráldez
 Trade and empire (Chapter 4) – The Cambridge Economic History of Modern Europe. pp. 100–01. doi:10.1017/CBO9780511794834.006. ISBN 978-0-521-88202-6. Archived from the original on 3 March 2018. Retrieved 2 March 2018. {{cite book}}: |website= ignored (help)
 Levinson, Marc. "Sample Chapter for Levinson, M.: The Box: How the Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger". The Box: How the Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger. Princeton University Press. Archived from the original on 22 January 2013. Retrieved 17 February 2013.
 Gittins, Ross (12 June 2006). "How the invention of a box changed our world – Business – smh.com.au". The Sydney Morning Herald. Archived from the original on 14 November 2015. Retrieved 17 February 2013.
 "World Exports as Percentage of Gross World Product". Global Policy Forum. Archived from the original on 12 July 2008. Retrieved 11 November 2009.
 Varghese, N.V. 2008, 'Globalization of higher education and cross-border student mobility', International Institute for Educational Planning, UNESCO
 Lourdes, Benería; Gunseli, Berik; Maria S., Floro (2016). Gender, Development, and Globalization: Economics as if all people mattered. New York: Routledge. p. 95. ISBN 978-0-415-53748-3.
 Klein, Naomi (2008). The Shock Doctrine. Canada: Vintage. p. 68.
 Lourdes, Benería; Deere, Carmen Diana; Kabeer, Naila (8 August 2012). "Gender and International Migration: Globalization, Development and Governance". Feminist Economics. 18 (2): 1–33. doi:10.1080/13545701.2012.688998. S2CID 144565818.
 Rai. "The History of International Development: Concepts and Contexts". Women, Gender and Development Reader: 15.
 Wolf, Martin (2001). "Will the nation-state survive globalization?". Foreign Affairs. 80 (1): 178–190. doi:10.2307/20050051. JSTOR 20050051. Archived from the original on 11 September 2017. Retrieved 12 September 2017.
 Ritzer, George (2011). Globalization: The Essentials. NY: John Wiley & Sons.
 Saggi, Kamal (2002). "Trade, Foreign Direct Investment, and International Technology Transfer: A Survey". World Bank Research Observer. 17 (2): 191–235. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.17.7732. doi:10.1093/wbro/17.2.191. S2CID 16620922.
 Hunt, Michael H. (2004). The World Transformed 1945 to present. p. 399.
 "The Open Market Internet Index". Treese.org. 11 November 1995. Archived from the original on 1 June 2013. Retrieved 15 June 2013.
 "World Stats". Internet World Stats. Miniwatts Marketing Group. 30 June 2012. Archived from the original on 23 June 2011. Retrieved 4 January 2015.
 "Signs of life". The Economist. 15 November 2014. Archived from the original on 2 September 2017. Retrieved 29 August 2017.
 Faiola, Anthony. (2009). "A Global Retreat As Economies Dry Up." The Washington Post, 5 March 2009. Archived 4 December 2010 at the Wayback Machine
 Allison Morrow (24 May 2022). "Globalization is coming undone, and that's a huge red flag". CNN.
 "Czech foreign owned companies take second biggest dividend yield in 2017:report". Radio Prague. 7 March 2018.
 Joshi, Rakesh Mohan, (2009) International Business, Oxford University Press, New Delhi and New York ISBN 0-19-568909-7.
 Riley, T: "Year 12 Economics", p. 9. Tim Riley Publications, 2005
 Hill, Charles W.L. (2014). International business: competing in the global marketplace (10th ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill. ISBN 978-0-07-811277-5. OCLC 864808614.
 "What Is Globalization?". PIIE. 29 October 2018. Retrieved 25 May 2020.
 Pitelis, Christos; Roger Sugden (2000). The nature of the transnational firm. Routledge. p. H72. ISBN 978-0-415-16787-1.
 "Multinational Corporations". Archived from the original on 14 April 2018. Retrieved 23 December 2016.
 Roy D. Voorhees, Emerson L. Seim, and John I. Coppett, "Global Logistics and Stateless Corporations," Transportation Practitioners Journal 59, 2 (Winter 1992): 144–51.
 O'Sullivan, Arthur; Sheffrin, Steven M. (2003). Economics: Principles in Action. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall. p. 453. ISBN 978-0-13-063085-8.
 European Commission. "The EU Single Market: Fewer barriers, more opportunities". Europa web portal. Archived from the original on 1 October 2007. Retrieved 27 September 2007.
"Activities of the European Union: Internal Market". Europa web portal. Archived from the original on 25 June 2007. Retrieved 29 June 2007.
 Kuruvilla, Sarosh; Ranganathan, Aruna (October 2008). "Economic Development Strategies And Macro- And Micro-Level Human Resource Policies: The Case Of India's "Outsourcing" Industry". Industrial & Labor Relations Review. 62 (1): 39–72. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.662.425. doi:10.1177/001979390806200103. S2CID 12104735.
 "Outsourcing to Africa: The world economy calls | The Economist". 16 April 2011. Archived from the original on 11 May 2011. Retrieved 16 April 2011.
 Robinson, William I. "Globalization and the sociology of Immanuel Wallerstein: A critical appraisal". International Sociology. 1–23.
 James, Paul (2006). Globalism, Nationalism, Tribalism. London: Sage Publications. Archived from the original on 29 April 2020. Retrieved 20 December 2017.
 Manfred B. Steger and Paul James, 'Ideologies of Globalism', in Paul James and Manfred B. Steger, eds, Globalization and Culture: Vol. 4, Ideologies of Globalism Archived 8 November 2017 at the Wayback Machine, Sage Publications, London, 2010. Inda, Jonathan; Rosaldo, Renato (2002). "Introduction: A World in Motion". The Anthropology of Globalization. Wiley-Blackwell.
 Cowen, Tyler; Barber, Benjamin (May–June 2003). "Globalization and Culture" (PDF). Cato Policy Report. Archived from the original (PDF) on 19 November 2012. Retrieved 15 March 2017.
 Nadeem, S (2009) Macaulay's (Cyber) Children: The Cultural Politics of Outsourcing in India Archived 20 June 2010 at the Wayback Machine. Cultural Sociology
 Hacker, Violaine (2011). "Budovanie mediálneho priemyslu a podpora hodnotovo orientovanej spoločnosti v globalizácii: od chichotského výberu k pragmatickým výhodám EU občanov" [Building Medias Industry while Promoting a Community of Values in the Globalization: From Quixotic Choices to Pragmatic Boon for EU Citizens]. Politické vedy. 14 (2): 64–74. ISSN 1335-2741.
 Fangjun, Cao (1 September 2009). "Modernization Theory and China's Road to Modernization". Chinese Studies in History. 43 (1): 7–16. doi:10.2753/CSH0009-4633430101. ISSN 0009-4633. S2CID 145504998.
 McAlister, Elizabeth (September 2005). "Globalization and the Religious Production of Space". Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion. 44 (3): 249–255. doi:10.1111/j.1468-5906.2005.00283.x.
 "Globalization and Sport: A Review by Susan Froetschel". Archived from the original on 23 December 2016.
 "Overview of Olympic Games". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 30 April 2015. Retrieved 4 June 2008.
 "2006 FIFA World Cup broadcast wider, longer and farther than ever before". FIFA.com. Fédération Internationale de Football Association. 6 February 2007. Archived from the original on 20 January 2012. Retrieved 11 October 2009.
 Dunmore, Tom (2011). Historical Dictionary of Soccer. Scarecrow Press. p. 235. ISBN 978-0-8108-7188-5. The World Cup is now the most-watched sporting event in the world on television, above even the Olympic Games.
 Dobson, Stephen; Goddard, John (10 February 2011). The Economics of Football. Cambridge University Press. pp. 407–. ISBN 978-1-139-49630-8. The World Cup is the most widely viewed sporting event in the world: the estimated cumulative television audience for the 2006 World Cup in Germany was 26.2 billion, an average of 409 million viewers per match.
 Wong, Glenn M. (8 March 2012). The Comprehensive Guide to Careers in Sports. Jones & Bartlett Publishers. pp. 144–. ISBN 978-1-4496-0203-1. The World Cup is the most-watched sporting event in the world. In 2006, more than 30 billion viewers in 214 countries watched the World Cup on television, and more than 3.3 million spectators attended the 64 matches of the tournament.
 Clayton, Thomas (August 2004). ""Competing Conceptions of Globalization" Revisited: Relocating the Tension between World‐Systems Analysis and Globalization Analysis". Comparative Education Review. 48 (3): 274–294. doi:10.1086/421180. ISSN 0010-4086. S2CID 56099753.
 Throsby, David (2002). "The music industry in the new millennium: Global and Local Perspectives." Paper prepared for The Global Alliance for Cultural Diversity Division of Arts and Cultural Enterprise UNESCO, Paris.
 "Ethnic fusion Music". Allmusic. Archived from the original on 29 April 2012. Retrieved 20 February 2020.
 "Worldbeat". Allmusic. Archived from the original on 3 May 2012. Retrieved 20 February 2020.
 "World Fusion Music". worldmusic.nationalgeographic.com. Archived from the original on 14 March 2012.
 "Chili: Small Fruit Sets Global Palettes on Fire" Archived 31 December 2016 at the Wayback Machine, History of Globalization, YaleGlobal Online.
 Beard, David and Keneth Gloag. 2005. Musicology: The Key Concepts. London and New York: Routledge.
 "International Flows of Selected Goods and Services" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 July 2010. Retrieved 31 July 2010.
 "Why do we need religion in a globalized world?". Aleteia — Catholic Spirituality, Lifestyle, World News, and Culture. 11 April 2018. Archived from the original on 12 April 2018. Retrieved 12 April 2018.
 Ghosh, Biswajit (June 2011). "Cultural Changes and Challenges in the Era of Globalization: The Case of India". Journal of Developing Societies. 27 (2): 153–175. doi:10.1177/0169796X1102700203. ISSN 0169-796X. S2CID 145494090.
 Cuccioletta, Donald. Multiculturalism or Transculturalism: Towards a Cosmopolitan Citizenship., London Journal of Canadian Studies 2001/2002 Vol. 17, Plattsburgh State University of New York, Interdisciplinary Research Group on the Americas
 transcultural Archived 5 August 2018 at the Wayback Machine, thefreedictionary.com
 transcultural Archived 2 January 2018 at the Wayback Machine, yourdictionary.com
 George Modelski; Tessaleno Devezas; William R. Thompson (20 December 2007). Globalization as Evolutionary Process: Modeling Global Change. Routledge. p. 59. ISBN 978-1-135-97764-1.
 Teodor Lucian Moga (2009). "The Contribution of the Neofunctionalist and Intergovernmentalist Theories to the Evolution of the European Integration Process" (PDF). Journal of Alternative Perspectives in the Social Sciences. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 December 2012. Retrieved 21 May 2012.
 "These are all the countries where the US has a military presence". Quartz. 2 April 2015. Archived from the original on 2 August 2019. Retrieved 2 August 2019.
 Pawel Zaleski Global Non-governmental Administrative System: Geosociology of the Third Sector, [in:] Gawin, Dariusz & Glinski, Piotr [ed.]: "Civil Society in the Making", IFiS Publishers, Warszawa 2006
 "Vaccine Delivery". Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Archived from the original on 31 May 2013. Retrieved 6 June 2013.
 "The Index of Global Philanthropy and Remittances 2012. Hudson Institute Center for Global Prosperity" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 July 2012.
 "North Korean Refugees NGO". Northkoreanrefugees.com. 20 October 2008. Archived from the original on 18 June 2010. Retrieved 23 August 2010.
 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (2 July 2008). "UNHCR Freedom in the World 2008 – North Korea". Unhcr.org. Archived from the original on 18 October 2012. Retrieved 23 August 2010.
 Kabeer, Nalia; Simeen; Mahmud (2004). "Rags, Riches and Women Workers: Export-Oriented Garment Manufacturing in Bangladesh," from Linking Women Producers and Workers with Global Markets. London: Commonwealth Secretariat. pp. 137, 147, 148, 150, 152. ISBN 978-0-85092-798-6.
 Wright W., Melissa (2007). "The Dialectics of Still Life: Murder, Women, and Disposability," from Disposable Women and Other Myths of Global Capitalism. New York: Routledge. pp. 73, 82, 83.
 Zimmerer, Karl S. (2006). Globalization & New Geographies of Conservation. University of Chicago Press. p. 1. ISBN 978-0-226-98344-8.
 Krishnan, Armin (2016). War as Business: Technological Change and Military Service Contracting. Routledge. p. 157. ISBN 978-1-317-00049-5.
 James, Paul (2014). "Faces of Globalization and the Borders of States: From Asylum Seekers to Citizens". Citizenship Studies. 18 (2): 208–23. doi:10.1080/13621025.2014.886440. S2CID 144816686.
 Boustan, Adain May. "Fertility and Immigration." UCLA. 15 January 2009.
 Siebeck, Florian. "Flugzeugparkplatz im Outback: Schlaf in der Wüste". FAZ.NET (in German). ISSN 0174-4909. Retrieved 16 May 2020.
 "UNWTO World Tourism Barometer" (PDF). UNWTO World Tourism Barometer. 11 (1). January 2013. Archived from the original (PDF) on 28 February 2013. Retrieved 9 April 2013.
 "Visa Openness Report 2015 January 2016" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 January 2016.
 "immigration". OxfordDictionaries.com. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 18 May 2016. Retrieved 11 May 2016.
 "immigrate". Merriam-Webster.com. Merriam-Webster, In. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014. Retrieved 27 March 2014.
 "Who's who: Definitions". London, England: Refugee Council. 2016. Archived from the original on 16 September 2015. Retrieved 7 September 2015.
 "Mainstreaming of Migration in Development Policy and Integrating Migration in the Post-2015 UN Development Agenda" (PDF). www.ilo.org. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 May 2017. Retrieved 23 December 2016.
 "Most London babies have foreign-born parent Archived 25 June 2018 at the Wayback Machine". Financial Times. 1 December 2016.
 Landis, Dan; Bhawuk, Dharm P. S. (2020). The Cambridge handbook of intercultural training (4th ed.). Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press & Assessment. ISBN 978-1-108-85418-4. OCLC 1135909636.
 Caligiuri, Paula (2021). Build Your Cultural Agility The Nine Competencies of Successful Global Professionals. London: Kogan Page, Limited. ISBN 978-1-78966-660-1. OCLC 1239982517.
 Gribble, C (2008). "Policy options for managing international student migration: the sending country's perspective". Journal of Higher Education Policy and Management. 30 (1): 25–39. doi:10.1080/13600800701457830. S2CID 155059201.
 "Measuring digital development: Facts and figures 2021". Telecommunication Development Bureau, International Telecommunication Union (ITU). Retrieved 16 November 2022.
 "Company Info – Facebook Newsroom". Facebook. Archived from the original on 15 November 2015. Retrieved 23 December 2016.
 Berglez, Peter (2008). "What is Global Journalism?". Journalism Studies. 9 (6): 845–58. doi:10.1080/14616700802337727. S2CID 142859567.
 "The Coronavirus Could Finally Kill the Wild Animal Trade". Foreign Policy. 25 February 2020. Archived from the original on 17 March 2020. Retrieved 6 April 2020.
 "Coronavirus: Which countries have confirmed cases?". Al Jazeera. 6 April 2020. Archived from the original on 31 March 2020. Retrieved 6 April 2020.
 "Coronavirus COVID-19 Global Cases by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins". Archived from the original on 5 September 2019. Retrieved 25 March 2020.
 "Disaster in motion: 3.4 million travelers poured into US as coronavirus pandemic erupted". ABC News. 2 April 2020. Archived from the original on 2 April 2020. Retrieved 6 April 2020.
 "KOF Index of Globalization". ethz.ch. The KOF Swiss Economic Institute. 2014. Archived from the original on 31 May 2012. Retrieved 21 January 2013.
 16 October 2006 Archived 6 March 2008 at the Wayback Machine. Data for the year 2006. No longer published.
 Vujakovic, Petra (2010). "How to Measure Globalization? A New Globalization Index (NGI)". Atlantic Economic Journal. 38 (2): 237. doi:10.1007/s11293-010-9217-3.
 Overland, Indra (1 April 2016). "Energy: The missing link in globalization". Energy Research & Social Science. 14: 122. doi:10.1016/j.erss.2016.01.009. Archived from the original on 5 February 2018. Retrieved 7 April 2018.
 Sen, Amartya K. (1970). Collective choice and social welfare. San Francisco, CA: Holden-Day.
 "Definition of xenophobia in English from the Oxford dictionary". oxforddictionaries.com. Archived from the original on 31 July 2016. Retrieved 23 December 2016.
 "Define Xenophobia at Dictionary.com". Dictionary.com. Archived from the original on 1 January 2011. Retrieved 23 December 2016.
 Guido Bolaffi. Dictionary of race, ethnicity and culture. SAGE Publications Ltd., 2003. p. 332.
 "Poverty Analysis – Measuring Inequality". worldbank.org. Archived from the original on 22 June 2013. Retrieved 2 June 2013.
 "The Happy Planet Index". Neweconomics.org. Archived from the original on 26 September 2009. Retrieved 2 June 2013.
 Capra, Fritjof (2002). The Hidden Connections. New York, New York: Random House. ISBN 978-0-385-49471-7.
 Sorrells, Kathryn. Intercultural Communication: Globalization and Social Justice. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 2013. Print.
 "Pope: isolationism and populism lead to war – Vatican News". www.vaticannews.va. 9 August 2019. Archived from the original on 9 August 2019. Retrieved 9 August 2019.
 Guttal, Shalmali (2007). "Globalisation". Development in Practice. 17 (4/5): 523–531. doi:10.1080/09614520701469492. ISSN 0961-4524. JSTOR 25548249. S2CID 218523141.
 Fiss, Peer C.; Hirsch, Paul M. (February 2005). "The Discourse of Globalization: Framing and Sensemaking of an Emerging Concept". American Sociological Review. 70 (1): 29–52. doi:10.1177/000312240507000103. S2CID 16331519.
 "Africans and Asians Tend to View Globalization Favorably; Europeans and Americans are More Skeptical". WorldPublicOpinion.org. 7 November 2006. Archived from the original on 12 February 2012. Retrieved 28 November 2019.
 "Widespread Unease about Economy and Globalization – Global poll" (PDF). BBC World Service. 2008. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 September 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2015.
 Gordon, Philip. 2004. "Globalization: Europe's Wary Embrace" Archived 29 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine. Yale Global, 1 November 2004.
 Fox, Justin (15 November 2007). "Why Denmark Loves Globalization". Time. Archived from the original on 23 October 2019. Retrieved 28 November 2019.
 Ip, Greg (18 July 2008). "The Declining Value Of Your College Degree". The Wall Street Journal. ISSN 0099-9660. Archived from the original on 29 February 2020. Retrieved 29 November 2019.
 Heizo, Takenaka; Ryokichi, Chida (1998). "Japan" (PDF). In Morrison, Charles E.; Soesastro, Hadi (eds.). Domestic Adjustments to Globalization. Tokyo: Japan Center for International Exchange. pp. 76–102. ISBN 4-88907-012-5. OCLC 40657196. Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 April 2011.
 Bhagwati, Jagdish (2004). In Defense of Globalization. Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-533093-9. OCLC 719371219.
 Shoa, S. Rajgopal (2002). "Reclaiming Democracy, the Anti-globalization Movement in South Asia". Feminist Review (70): 134–137. JSTOR 1395975.
 Graham, Carol (1 January 2011). "Winners and Losers: Perspectives on Globalization from the Emerging Market Economies". Brookings. Archived from the original on 11 May 2011.
 Fuller, Dan; Geide-Stevenson, Doris (Fall 2003). "Consensus Among Economists: Revisited" (PDF). Journal of Economic Review. 34 (4): 369–87. doi:10.1080/00220480309595230. S2CID 143617926. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 September 2004. Retrieved 22 December 2016.(registration required)
 Friedman, Milton (1993). "The Case for Free Trade". Hoover Digest. 1997 (4): 42. Bibcode:1993SciAm.269e..42B. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1193-42. Archived from the original on 22 January 2007.
 Whaples, Robert (2006). "Do Economists Agree on Anything? Yes!". The Economists' Voice. 3 (9). doi:10.2202/1553-3832.1156. S2CID 201123406.
 Mankiw, Gregory (7 May 2006). "Outsourcing Redux". Archived from the original on 2 April 2007. Retrieved 22 January 2007.
 "Poll Results | IGM Forum". www.igmchicago.org. Archived from the original on 22 June 2016. Retrieved 1 July 2016.
 Sachs, Jeffrey (2005). The End of Poverty. New York: Penguin Press. ISBN 978-1-59420-045-8. OCLC 57243168.
 Peet, Richard; Hartwick, Elaine (2015). Theories of Development: Contentions, Arguments, Alternatives (3rd ed.). New York: The Guilford Press. p. 2. ISBN 978-1-4625-1957-6. OCLC 908634816. But economic growth can occur without touching problems like inequality or poverty when all the increase in income goes to a relatively few people.
 Beaudet, Pierre; Schafer, Jessica; Haslam, Paul A. (2012). Introduction to International Development: Approaches, Actors, and Issues. Oxford University Press. p. 112. ISBN 978-0-19-544020-1. According to Oxfam International, the contrasting experiences of Latin America and East Asia illustrate that globalization-induced growth and poverty can co-exist. Even when the market expands, 'poor people are often excluded from opportunities by a lack of productive assets, weak infrastructure, poor education, and ill-health'
 Conversi, Daniele (2009) 'Globalization, ethnic conflict and nationalism Archived 7 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine', in B. Turner (ed.) Handbook of Globalization Studies. London: Routledge/ Taylor & Francis; Barkawi, Tarak (2005) Globalization and War. Rowman & Littlefield; Smith, Dennis (2006) Globalization: The Hidden Agenda. Cambridge: Polity Press. See also Barber, Benjamin R., Jihad vs. McWorld. Ballantine Books, 1996
 "Number of billionaires worldwide surged to 2,754 in 2017". The Guardian. 15 May 2018. Archived from the original on 18 May 2018. Retrieved 18 May 2018.
 "Human Development Report 2003" (PDF). UNDP. 2003. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 April 2013. Retrieved 6 April 2013.
 Berg, Andrew G.; Ostry, Jonathan D. (2011). "Equality and Efficiency". Finance and Development. 48 (3). Archived from the original on 3 July 2012. Retrieved 10 September 2012.
 Martin Wolf (2004). Why Globalization Works. Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-10252-9. Retrieved 6 April 2013.[dead link]
 Dollar, David; Kraay, Aart. "Trade, Growth, and Poverty". Finance and Development. International Monetary Fund. Archived from the original on 11 January 2012. Retrieved 6 June 2011.
 E.g. Pyun, Ju Hyun; Lee, Jong-Wha (21 March 2009). "Globalisation promotes peace". Archived from the original on 25 October 2014. Retrieved 25 October 2014.
 See, for example, Roy Harrod, The Life of John Maynard Keynes, Macmillan, 1951; Donald Markwell, John Maynard Keynes and International Relations: Economic Paths to War and Peace, Oxford University Press, 2006. Keynes had colourfully described the globalization before World War I in The Economic Consequences of the Peace, Macmillan, 1919, chapter 2.
 Lee, Laurence (17 May 2007). "WTO blamed for India grain suicides". Al Jazeera. Archived from the original on 19 May 2007. Retrieved 17 May 2007.
 Bakan, Joel (2004). The Corporation. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-7432-4744-3.
 Perkins, John (2004). Confessions of an Economic Hit Man. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler. ISBN 978-1-57675-301-9.
 "Fórum Social Mundial". Forumsocialmundial.org.br. Archived from the original on 18 September 2008. Retrieved 31 July 2010.
 "NAFTA at 10". Economic Policy Institute. Archived from the original on 30 June 2012. Retrieved 7 February 2012.
 Hurst E. Charles. Social Inequality: Forms, Causes, and consequences, 6th ed. p. 41
 "USACOR.org". USACOR.org. 28 July 2009. Archived from the original on 20 May 2010. Retrieved 31 July 2010.
 Roche, Douglas. "The Case for a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly" (PDF). The World Federalist Movement – Institute for Global Policy. Archived from the original (PDF) on 31 May 2013. Retrieved 28 May 2012.
 Altinay, Hakan (2010). "The Case for Global Civics". Global Economy and Development at Brookings. Archived from the original on 3 June 2010.
 "Global Parliament | World Citizens Association (Australia)". australia. Archived from the original on 19 August 2019. Retrieved 19 August 2019.
 Altinay, Hakan (June 2010). "A Global Civics: Necessary? Feasible?". Global Policy. Archived from the original on 26 September 2012. Retrieved 16 July 2012.
 Meyjes (also: Posthumus Meyjes), Gregory Paul (1999). "Language and Universalization: a 'Linguistic Ecology' Reading of Bahá'í Writ". The Journal of Bahá'í Studies. Vol. IX (1). Ottawa: Association for Bahá'í Studies. pp. 51–63.
 "Cosmopolitan". Dictionary.com. Archived from the original on 2 January 2016. Retrieved 7 April 2012.
 Kwame Anthony Appiah, "Cosmopolitan Patriots," Critical Inquiry 23, no. 3 (Spring, 1997): 617–39.
 Marshall McLuhan and Bruce R. Powers (17 September 1992) The Global Village: Transformations in World Life and Media in the 21st century . Oxford University Press: 17 September 1992
 Chapman, Roger. Culture wars: an encyclopedia of issues, viewpoints, and voices, Volume 1. 2009: M.E. Sharp
 "International cooperation as a stepping-stone to a world government". Global Policy Journal. Archived from the original on 3 December 2013. Retrieved 15 June 2013.
 "Slowbalisation". The Economist. Vol. 430, no. 9127. 26 January 2019. ProQuest 2171135679.
 Jacques Derrida (May 2004) Enlightenment past and to come Archived 19 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine, speech at the party for 50 years of Le Monde diplomatique
 Morris, Douglas "Globalization and Media Democracy: The Case of Indymedia", Shaping the Network Society, MIT Press 2003. Courtesy link to (pre-publication version) FIS.utoronto.ca Archived 4 March 2009 at the Wayback Machine
 Juris, Jeffrey S. (2008). Networking Futures: The Movements against Corporate Globalization. Durham: Duke University Press. p. 2. ISBN 978-0-8223-4269-4.
 Staggenborg, S. (2011). Social movements (Rev. ed.). New York: Oxford University Press.
 Engler, M. (30 May 2007). "The Anti-Globalization Movement Defined Share The World's Resources". Retrieved 14 March 2013.[permanent dead link]l
 "The treachery of the lites Elite sense of irresponsibility". The Independent. 10 March 1995. Archived from the original on 27 August 2017. Retrieved 19 September 2018.
 Snow, D.A., Soule, S.A., & Kriesi, H. (2004). The Blackwell companion to social movements. Malden, MA: Blackwell Pub.
 Frieden, Jeffry A. (1991). "Invested Interests: The Politics of National Economic Policies in a World of Global Finance". International Organization. 45 (4): 425–51. doi:10.1017/s0020818300033178. ISSN 1531-5088. JSTOR 2706944. S2CID 154738660.
 Kolas, Logan. "How Tariffs and Regressive Trade Policies Hurt the Poor". The Heritage Foundation. Archived from the original on 30 March 2019. Retrieved 30 March 2019.
 Ottaway, Marina (September 2001). "Corporatism Goes Global". Global Governance: A Review of Multilateralism and International Organizations. 7 (3). doi:10.1163/19426720-00703006. Archived from the original on 3 September 2014. Retrieved 28 August 2014.
 Storper Michael (2000). "Lived effects of the Contemporary Economy: Globalization, Inequality, and Consumer Society". Public Culture. 12 (2): 375–409. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.571.5793. doi:10.1215/08992363-12-2-375. S2CID 53599498.
 Cohen, Maurie J. (July 2013). "Collective dissonance and the transition to post-consumerism". Futures. 52: 42–51. doi:10.1016/j.futures.2013.07.001.
 "GINI index (World Bank estimate) | Data". data.worldbank.org. Retrieved 23 July 2020.
 Mertes, Tom; Bello, Walden F.; Bové, José; Cassen, Bernard; et al., eds. (2004). A Movement of Movements: Is Another World Really Possible?. London: Verso. ISBN 1-85984-504-5. OCLC 53243132.
 della Porta, D. 2005. "The Social Bases of the Global Justice Movement: Some Theoretical Reflections and Empirical Evidence from the First European Social Forum." Civil Society and Social Movements Programme Paper No. 21.Geneva: UNRISD (United Nations Research Institute for Social Development).
 Education and Social Justice By J. Zajda, S. Majhanovich, V. Rust, 2006, ISBN 1-4020-4721-5
 Nursing ethics: across the curriculum and into practice By Janie B. Butts, Karen Rich, Jones and Bartlett Publishers 2005, ISBN 978-0-7637-4735-0
 "Legal Birth Definition Act – Act 135 of 2004" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 December 2013. Retrieved 1 June 2012.
 Rosling, Hans (2013). "How much do you know about the world?". BBC News. BBC. Archived from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 9 July 2014.
 Stiglits Joseph E. (13 October 2013). "Inequality is a Choice". New York Times. Archived from the original on 25 November 2018. Retrieved 9 July 2014.
 "Outlook on the Global Agenda 2014" (PDF). World Economic Forum. Archived (PDF) from the original on 10 February 2015. Retrieved 9 July 2014.
 Pavcnik, Nina; Pavcnik, Nina (September 2005). "Child Labor in the Global Economy". Journal of Economic Perspectives. 19 (1): 199–220. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.488.791. doi:10.1257/0895330053147895.
 Seguino, Stephanie; Grown, Caren (November 2006). "Gender equity and globalization: macroeconomic policy for developing countries". Journal of International Development. 18 (8): 1081–104. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.589.4614. doi:10.1002/jid.1295. Pdf version – via the World Bank. Archived 5 June 2013 at the Wayback Machine
 Lourdes, Benería (2014). Gender, development, and globalization: economics as if all people mattered. Berik, Günseli, Floro, Maria (Second ed.). New York. ISBN 978-0-415-53748-3. OCLC 903247621.
 Foroohar, Rana (3 June 2016). "Globalization's True Believers Are Having Second Thoughts". TIME. Archived from the original on 17 June 2016. Retrieved 12 July 2018.
 Kennedy, Paul. (2006.) The Parliament of Man: The Past, Present, and Future of the United Nations. New York: Harper Collins. ISBN 978-0-375-50165-4
 "Ideology and Sustainability". Formal.stanford.edu. Archived from the original on 4 February 2012. Retrieved 13 June 2012.
 Ronald Bailey from the February 2002 issue (February 2002). "Debunking Green Myths". Reason.com. Archived from the original on 10 July 2012. Retrieved 13 June 2012.
 Donald Gibson. Environmentalism: Ideology and Power. Nova Science Pub Inc. 2003
 Low, Nicholas. (2002). Global Ethics and Environment. Routledge Science. ISBN 978-0-415-19735-9.
 Lechner, Frank J., and John Boli. 2012. The Globalization Reader, 4th ed. Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 978-0-470-65563-4.
 Norberg-Hodge, Helena (1992). Ancient futures: learning from Ladakh (Sierra Club Books paperback ed.). San Francisco: Sierra Club Books. ISBN 978-0-87156-643-0.
 Levinson, Arik; M. Scott Taylor (2008). "Unmasking the Pollution Haven Effect" (PDF). International Economic Review. 49 (1): 223–54. doi:10.1111/j.1468-2354.2008.00478.x. S2CID 40982519. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2 June 2018. Retrieved 29 November 2019.
 "Farmers, environmentalists slam 'sell-out' EU-Mercosur trade deal". France24. 29 June 2019. Archived from the original on 25 August 2019. Retrieved 25 August 2019.
 "EU urged to halt trade talks with S. America over Brazil abuses". France 24. 18 June 2019. Archived from the original on 25 August 2019. Retrieved 25 August 2019.
 "We must not barter the Amazon rainforest for burgers and steaks". The Guardian. 2 July 2019. Archived from the original on 24 August 2019. Retrieved 25 August 2019.
 Clapp, J. "Food Security and International Trade Unpacking disputed narratives" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 28 January 2018.
 Flaten and Hisano, 2007. Food Security Policy in a Food Importing Country: The Case of Norway

Chapter 1: Introduction to the contemporary world and globalization

hello students

so today as we start our discussion

about our course about contemporary

world

try let us try to find out why do we

consume

this foods why do we go to fast food

such as jollibee and mcdo

why do we subscribe on this

subscriptions like for example netflix

and why do we buy items on mobile

legends

or skin on mobile legends or items in

dota

or have you ever asked yourself why do

you buy

a hundred bucks of coffee or

a 2000 box of planner in starbucks

or patronize apple products

such as iphone iwatch macbook

and those tablets

why do jinky pacquiao and heart

evangelista

spend millions just for

a bicycle in a bag

this is because we are live contemporary

world

contemporary world means that this

is the modern world we are living the

current

world that we are celebrating

so as we discuss contemporary world

we better understand these topics

these two topics here are global age and

globalization

what does it mean global age

when we say global age we try

to see a period of time and we believe

in the contemporary world that the world

is aging

according to its definition it is a

period of time

when there is a pervading sense of

interconnectedness of

all human beings of common faith

for human species and a threat to its

life

on this earth so let us go back with the

definition

about global age meaning to say this

is this tells us that this is a period

of time

where human beings are interconnected

with each other

despite that we are not living in the

same roof

despite that we are not living in the

same country

we are still connected with one

culture one tradition and one

common faith and that is for survival

of human species

these two topics here are global age and

globalization

what does it mean yes we know already

what is global age

therefore let us try to analyze

what is happening in the global age and

that is

globalization wow this is

quite a very lengthy definition of

globalization

but let us try to dissect the definition

of globalization

since we all know that we are now

currently experiencing the

age which we call as the global age

therefore we have to better understand

what is happening during global age and

that is

globalization of which it is a process

of intercon interaction and inter

integration

among people companies and government of

different

nations nations so that's it

that's that's the first definition of

which take note it is a process meaning

to say

it's a step to step process you cannot

jump

from step one to step five while the

others are left behind

meaning to say it goes along with a

process

it goes along with the specific steps in

achieving globalization

and this process involves two things

the interaction and inter integration

meaning to say

people companies and government interact

with each other

despite of their differences and

similarities

they interact and thus if they their

interaction is

good or bad they are now being

integrated as one okay

and another definition it is a process

driven by

international trade and investment and

aided by information

technology so

when we discuss globalization we discuss

about

economic globalization on our succeeding

discussion you will learn that the main

tool

or the main drive of globalization is

economic globalization

so part of it is international trade and

investment

and aided with information technology or

the technology we are experiencing today

another is it discussed here

the process has its effects we believe

that all of the things we do on earth

has effects whether whether it is good

or bad positive or negative or advantage

or disadvantage all of the things in

earth

has effects so

what are these effects effects on the

environment

on culture on political systems

on economic development and prosperity

and on human physical well-being in

societies around the world

take note one of the effects in

environment

a very good example of it is having

climate change today

on culture we try to adopt different

cultures like for example

the adaptation of us loving k-pop

or loving korean dramas and loving

korean pop music or pop

culture or korean culture today so

that's one of the example of

globalization

and let us try to take note about

globalization

is first it is

about liberalization and global

integration of market

take note that with this discuss that

one major drive of globalization

is economics and that's why we

are trying to look on the market system

meaning to say liberalization when we

are talking about liberalization

it talks about freedom to choose

freedom to have businesses so that's it

that's globalization next is

globalization

is inevitable and irreversible

when we are talking about inevitable and

irreversible meaning to say

we cannot erase we cannot vanish

globalization because globalization is

here we cannot go back to the time like

for example

we cannot can no longer go back to the

pre-hispanic

age or even on the renaissance or even

on the medieval age of the world

we have to face globalization

next is nobody is in charge of

globalization

you me and us is never in charge of

making globalization

we are just here as one of the tools

that drives

globalization itself we are just here

as part of the process of globalization

next is benefits everyone in the long

run

you and me us human race and human

species

benefits as being part of the process

of the of globalization yes the benefit

may be an advantage or a disadvantage to

others but let us try to look on a

brighter side

that globalization benefits all of us

next is this further spread of democracy

in the world

going back to your social science

democracy talks about the majority rule

or meaning to say the majority rule must

prevail

and the minority must be protected so

if it is democracy therefore when we

try to go on the process of

globalization therefore

we try to spread the majority rule

or what is or what we call as the

sonombonum

or the good

for all that's sonombonum and lastly

globalization requires a global war on

terror

which means that when we engage on the

process

it deals a war why because

we try to change the current situation

or the current status quo we are living

so that's it that's globalization i hope

you have

better understanding about globalization

if you have questions

feel free to ask on our next

session now let's move

these two topics here are global age and

globalization

what does it mean contemporary world

contemporary world means that this

is the modern world we are living the

current

world that we are celebrating

so as we discuss contemporary world

we better understand these topics

and conceptualizing what is

globalization

so later we will understand on the

definition of ritzer

of which it is a transplantatory

process or processes involved increasing

liquidity

and growing multi-directional flows

as well as the structures they encounter

and create that's according to ritzer

let's try to analyze it later

the underlined words now

let us go first on conceptualizing how

did we

deal with the process of globalization

there are three processes to consider

in understanding globalization first

is creating people creating what we call

as

transnational what does it mean by

transnational

this are individuals this is me this is

you creating transnational of which

we possess we possess and we

interconnect with each other despite of

our differences differences in culture

tradition language and many others

so we created individuals now we

transform these individuals and we

created

social groups or communities

therefore we created now

transnationality

which is the rise of new communities new

communities that creates

new social identities in our today's

world so that's it upon creating a new

community

we create now new social condition

meaning to say we create now a new

social community

new norm new culture new tradition

of which we call it as globality

or it is an omnipresence to the process

of globalization or this is the product

of globalization all right

so that's it the process we create

people and we create transnational

therefore as we create people

we create communities and that is

transnationality

and lastly as we create community

we create now a social condition which

we call

as globality or the product of

globalization

world contemporary world

means that this is the modern world we

are living

the current world that we are

celebrating

so as we discuss contemporary world

we better understand these topics

so as ritzer's definition

as an increasing liquidity and

multi-directional flows

as a definition of globalization to

better understand it

we use metaphors going back to your

english

we use the figurative language as a

substitute to words

or definitions of things like simile

hyperbole and many others so

let's try to deeper our understanding

about metaphors so first

is solidity we use solidity

as what as to describe

as describe a limited mobility of

people things information

and places over time going back to your

chemistry when we say

solid the atoms are compact

and cannot easily move or

it has limited mobility like in our

globalization

in the contemporary world solidity

meaning to say

we have limited mobility because we call

it there is what we call as

barriers bar years later will be

discussed

contrary to solidity is liquidity

it's an increased ease of movement of

people

things information and places in the

global age

meaning to say going back to your

chemistry again

when we say liquids atoms are

free-flowing therefore they free from

any directions that's liquidity

so here in contemporary world

liquidity means we are the people

not the atoms but people thinks

information and places has an increase

and free flowing all right

another metaphor is heavy when

when therefore it hardens or there is a

limited move

and if it is heavy we have difficulty to

move

and if it's difficult to move therefore

it is heavy like for example

if you're carrying a very tons of load

therefore it is heavy for you to move

contrary to it is easier to move meaning

to say

if it is easy if it is if

if we don't have any burdens or

barriers at all at all when we are

moving

therefore it is easier to move and it is

what they call

as lie so

upon moving upon moving to solid to

liquid

heavy to light there is what we call as

flow the movement of people

thinks information and due to the

what porosity of global

barriers so there are barriers

of which flows affects later

we will know what are these barriers so

take note

that globalization globalization flows

from solid to liquid from heavy

to light so that's the movement of

globalization to better understand the

movement or the flow

of globalization let us try to look at

on this

illustration below looking to the

illustration below on your right on your

left

rather this is the evolution

of communication as you can see we have

a heartened we have a hard time

there is there is a limited mobility of

communication before

looking back if you would like to

communicate before

you have to burn woods and to create

and to create smoke to signal

one community to the other that you have

a you have a message for them

thus we use dove so it transformed

and we use dove or crows or birds

to deliver our message to a specific

person

or to specific groups however as time

goes by

we changed that one and we created

computers

computers that delivers our message

to the other person with just one click

because of a very bulky we turn it down

into laptops laptops

that are easier and handy for all of us

to send message and as we goes

and as we go and as we flow with

globalization

we turned laptops to mobile phones

mobile phones that as an easy as one

clicked

we could send message we could record

we could have cameras on your mobile

phones as easy as that

so that's it as you can see the flow of

globalization

from us from a solid or a limited

mobility

we transform it with an increase

movement of communication now as you can

see in the next

figure you could see how we write our

letters

before we use it as a handwritten

so we created and we improvise by

creating typewriters we typewrite our

letters

and then send it to postmails

however we change it now

with by the use of our computers and our

laptops

we try to put it on on a word

then try to print it and deliver it to a

person

however we change it now by the use of

our tablets and our faults

just by a click of a hand a minute

the person will receive your message

so that's it that's how globalization

turned to become one of the succeeding

influence of today

contemporary world contemporary world

means that this is the modern world we

are living

the current world that we are

celebrating

so as we discuss contemporary world

we better understand these topics

so we have discussed that one drive of

globalization

is economic globalization

so what does it mean by economic

globalization it is a growing

economic linkages at global level

meaning to say

that since we are experiencing

economic globalization we are

experiencing

an economic linkages in a global level

we link from one country to the other

one state to the other in terms of

economy the global capitalist system has

produced a very

uneven playing field why does it why

does it

we produced and very uneven playing

field

because we produce an even playing field

because

we we try to make

social classes right

we tried to make this one

the great wall of china

to the huge digital divide in the world

today

so from from this one

from the from the great wall of china to

the

digital divide happening today take note

that before we were divided because of

great wall of china that's why china was

being isolated before

as being ostracized as one of the

countries in the world

however today we are divided digitally

that some of the countries can afford to

have online classes

and some of the poorer countries cannot

afford online classes they have the hard

time to do that

so why mobilizing social mobilizing

um technology today is a very difficult

one not just for you not just for me but

for all of us third world countries

now we have discussed a while ago with

barriers what are these barriers we have

structural barriers meaning to say

this are barriers embedded on our

societies

and this are first social classes

meaning to say we are divided because we

are

poor because we are middle class

because they are rich that's a barrier

for all of us

right compubrica this

because they're a lot seeking for it

and upper classes tend not to go back

to um poor that's

one of the barriers that is happening

today that's why there is a saying in a

in a bullet in political science that

the

the rich becomes richer and the poor

becomes

poorer it's the social classes

next structural barrier is race

we all know that despite that we fight

for equality and equity

we still we still have racial

discrimination

discrimination not just of

our race but for our colors like for

example if there are blacks we tend to

pretend to discriminate because we are

blacks we're never been contented

being being white or being morena this

we still

we still uh discriminate them based of

outbeats of their color

base of their race like for example

white we still

have the label why do media still label

um like for example

why do we need to label those things so

in fact

we could we could just say that

one person killed some killed somebody

right but yes

again the order of which um isolate

is community why do we need to label

this community as baja

community just to just to flame or just

to

put some just to put some fire

on on discrimination on baja

so that's it another structural barrier

is ethnicity we need to say

like grace we tend to discriminate

or we tend to look down on others

it's ethnicity like if you are if you

are a manobo if you are

this and that if you come from this

tribe why do we need to

why do we need to discriminate or why do

we need to look down on this

if we are if we believe that we are all

equals

next is gender today it's a very hot

topic

that do we necessarily need to have

gender equality right the equivalence of

men and women and other genders right

so it's a very long topic and we will be

discussing that one

sooner next is

the region of the world the division of

the world

the north and the south divides

so one of the topics that we will be

discussing is this one

the divi the division of the world

and lastly as part of economic

globalization

as um one of the product is this one

as you can see as you can see

people tend to go farther

your american dream as they call it

right your america american dream as you

call it

so it happens

here the brain drain due to economic

globalization we tend to have

brain drains in the country why those

good person or those excellent those

smart

people around the world or in our

countries tend to go

to the other countries and try to work

there because there's no work

available here in our country and then

we intend and we had

and we became brain drains that's why

as you can see in the picture

doctors i'm a scientist but the

government

don't don't see it as an asset

rather as liability that's why they go

to other places and they

find their luck there as they see their

lock

and as they see that that opportunity

so that's it that's what they call as

brain drain

contemporary world contemporary world

means that this is the modern world we

are living

the current world that we are

celebrating

so as we discuss contemporary world

we better understand these topics

now to better understand about

globalization we have to better

understand about

the origins and history of globalization

there

are four origins and history of

globalization and together let's try to

see

the recent changes that happened in

globalization

first in the origins and history of

globalization

is globalization which we call as

hard wire theory or

the urge meaning to say

when we are talking about there are many

perspectives

right of origins of globalization

where do globalization started first

is there is one theory or one

perspective and that is what they call

as hardwire

when we say hardwired simple it's the

urge

for a better life meaning to say

that globalization stems

on the urge of human being of having a

good

life looking on this example

it seems like a darwin's evolution

however

this is an evolution of communication

again

since we have the hard time to get news

and communication

from newspaper we tend to innovate and

create

radios and after radios we want to see

visual news that's why we created

televisions

and since televisions becomes

one of our assets tends to have

the creation of laptops

and computers and now with just one

click

of your hand by the use of your cell

phones

you could have your news at your hands

that's why delicate newspaper industries

because some of us are not using already

newspapers we use already

the click of our phones so that's it

that's hardwired the origin of

globalization started

with the urge of human beings for a

better life that's why

when when we tend

we tend to go back to maslow's hierarchy

of needs

we tend to have that human beings have

endless need endless needs and wants

that's why

we created and we innovated more and

more

and more that's why we still like for

example one of it is your beauty

products

why is it beauty products because

there is an urge to have a better skin

to become more

beautiful that's why that is what we

call as hardwired theory

now to better understand about

globalization we have to better

understand about

the origins and history of

globalization there are four

origins and history of globalization and

together

let's try to see the recent changes that

happened

in globalization

now the next example is

cycle the origins another perspective

aside from hardwired

is cycle meaning to say from the word

itself

cycle but there is no such thing as

start

and finish line of verbalization

that globalization cycles from one

stage to the other meaning to say ga to

you

clang and globalization like for example

we've come to this point and we are

going back to that point like for

example on your

on your fashion we tend to have

those kind of dresses before and now

we change it we change because

that dictates the call of time however

we change that one from and we go

we try to go back to what

we used to do on globalization

right so that's cycle meaning to say

that there's no finish or start on

globalization

l to better understand about

globalization we have to better

understand about

the origins and history of globalization

there are

four origins and history of

globalization and together let's try to

see

the recent changes that happened in

globalization

another another perspective is

epochs and origins i believe

all of you have answered the question i

gave you

that if you could change one epoch

or event in history what would it be and

why

thus accordingly

according to ritzer there are six great

epochs or waves of globalizations

this are first and the 14th

and 17th century which witnessed the

globalization

of religions meaning to say

that there is what they call as this is

what we call as

the

or the medieval wave of the world which

we discover

christianity islam judaism

protestantism and many other kinds of

religion

the globalization of religion however

it changes during the 15th century

when we highlighted

the european colonial conquest meaning

to say

the start of the start of the great

european conquest of what

is european

accordingly to our books they need

spices right

however according to history

they need three things they call it

as the three g's meaning to say three

g's take note

they they colonialize countries because

of three g's

first is that is god

meaning to say god they mean they means

as

they want to spread christianity around

the world so that's it second

is gold what does it mean by gold

kennebunk

not that one the gold they're talking is

spices spices of which if they could get

more spices that's the gold for them

and the third one is glory the more

country countries they colonize

they are more glorified meaning to say

if they conquered one country to the

other

therefore they means they are the most

powerful country so again

three things that the european colonial

conquest

the god gold and

glory okay

so as the change of colonial conquest

we have here the late 18th and 19th

centuries

during the various intra-european wars

led to globalization

do you know this person this person is

one of the great

warriors of europe and that is napoleon

bonaparte

he conquered many places and thus

created one of the glories of rome

now since since this

is um the 18th centuries of

intra-european wars they don't already

gained

the 3gs they want warts as

they go along with different places they

engage with wars

if madaok sila because if madagsela they

would get that place and therefore they

will be glorified

okay and it changes

in the mid 19th century to

18th century the heyday of rome

meaning to say the heyday of european

imperialism meaning to say

they have almost conquered the world

they have they have conquered many

of the asian countries such as singapore

by the great britain

vietnam malaysia indonesia by the spain

and many others so the heyday of guru

the haiti of rome so that's it

and lastly is the post-world war

period so as you can see this is

churchill

and many great leaders of the world war

ii period so that's it

that's the great epochs of the world

period and lastly is the post-cold war

period when we say cold war period this

is the period of time

which delete away of

god's and bullets

but they engaged in war of technologies

and the engage of war of knowledge and

learnings that's why

if you're familiar with neil armstrong

it arises there as the first man in the

moon

in gonzilla right so monastery us

no we are we are the first

one to step down on the moon so that is

what we call as cold war

these are weapons but

they engage war based on their knowledge

and their technologies okay

now that's the epochs of the

now to better understand about

globalization we have to better

understand about

the origins and history of

globalization there are four

origins and history of globalization and

together

let's try to see the recent changes that

happened

in globalization

let us try to go to the

the recent changes the events

is the events in history are many others

and one of which will be discussed on

our succeeding topics now let's try to

understand the recent changes that

happened

to globalization first is

the emergence of the united states as

the global power

in the years following world war ii meaning to say

after world war ii the dominant country

that that that holds power is u.s that's why we all know and we emerge

the captain america so we will try to

analyze

the movie captain america and superman

to be exact

next is the emergence of

corporations or mncs or transnational

corporations

such as this picture below so

the rise of the different corporations

around the world

and lastly is the the demise

of soviet union and the end of cold war

meaning to say the disintegration of

soviet union or

access of rate union and created with

many countries such

as russia and many others

and the end of cold war we have

discussed already what is cold war okay

so that's the recent changes and these

recent changes

will be discussed further on our

succeeding topics

so that's it that's what we call as

the first chapter of the definition

of globalization i hope you have

understand

some of it and you would really read

and understand all of those okay if you

have questions

feel free to ask those questions

um sooner or later as we meet virtually

okay so for the moment you have the

lesson and you have to understand

on this video thank you so much and i

hope you're doing good

god bless everyone

now to better understand about

globalization we have to better

understand

about the origins and history of

globalization there are four

origins and history of globalization and

together

let's try to see the recent changes

that happened in globalization

contemporary world contemporary world

means that this is the modern world we

are living

the current world that we are

celebrating

so as we discuss contemporary world

we better understand these topics


THE STRUCTURES OF GLOBALIZATION

What is globalization?
Globalization is the process by which ideas, knowledge, information,  goods and services spread around the world. In business, the term is used in an economic context to describe integrated economies marked by free trade, the free flow of capital among countries and easy access to foreign resources, including labor markets, to maximize returns and benefit for the common good.

Globalization, or globalisation as it is known in some parts of the world, is driven by the convergence of cultural and economic systems. This convergence promotes -- and in some cases necessitates -- increased interaction, integration and interdependence among nations. The more countries and regions of the world become intertwined politically, culturally and economically, the more globalized the world becomes. 


How globalization works
In a globalized economy, countries specialize in the products and services they have a competitive advantage in. This generally means what they can produce and provide most efficiently, with the least amount of resources, at a lower cost than competing nations. If all countries are specializing in what they do best, production should be more efficient worldwide, prices should be lower, economic growth widespread and all countries should benefit -- in theory.

Policies that promote free trade, open borders and international cooperation all drive economic globalization. They enable businesses to access lower priced raw materials and parts, take advantage of lower cost labor markets and access larger and growing markets around the world in which to sell their goods and services.

Money, products, materials, information and people flow more swiftly across national boundaries today than ever. Advances in technology have enabled and accelerated this flow and the resulting international interactions and dependencies. These technological advances have been especially pronounced in transportation and telecommunications.

Among the recent technological changes that have played a role in globalization are the following:

Internet and internet communication. The internet has increased the sharing and flow of information and knowledge, access to ideas and exchange of culture among people of different countries. It has contributed to closing the digital divide between more and less advanced countries.

Communication technology. The introduction of 4G and 5G technologies has dramatically increased the speed and responsiveness of mobile and wireless networks.

list of benefits of 5G network technology
Increased speed and bandwidth are among the benefits of 5G technology.
IoT and AI. These technologies are enabling the tracking of assets in transit and as they move across borders, making cross-border product management more efficient.

Blockchain. This technology is enabling the development of decentralized databases and storage that support the tracking of materials in the supply chain. Blockchain facilitates the secure access to data required in industries such as healthcare and banking. For example, blockchain provides a transparent ledger that centrally records and vets transactions in a way that prevents corruption and breaches.

list of 10 benefits of blockchain technology
10 benefits of blockchain technology
Transportation. Advances in air and fast rail technology have facilitated the movement of people and products. And changes in shipping logistics technology moves raw materials, parts and finished products around the globe more efficiently.

Manufacturing. Advances such as automation and 3D printing have reduced geographic constraints in the manufacturing industry. 3D printing enables digital designs to be sent anywhere and physically printed, making distributed, smaller-scale production near the point of consumption easier. Automation speeds up processes and supply chains, giving workforces more flexibility and improving output.

Why is globalization important?
Globalization changes the way nations, businesses and people interact. Specifically, it changes the nature of economic activity among nations, expanding trade, opening global supply chains and providing access to natural resources and labor markets.

Changing the way trade and financial exchange and interaction occurs among nations also promotes the cultural exchange of ideas. It removes the barriers set by geographic constraints, political boundaries and political economies.

For example, globalization enables businesses in one nation to access another nation's resources. More open access changes the way products are developed, supply chains are managed and organizations communicate. Businesses find cheaper raw materials and parts, less expensive or more skilled labor and more efficient ways to develop products.

With fewer restrictions on trade, globalization creates opportunities to expand. Increased trade promotes international competition. This, in turn, spurs innovation and, in some cases, the exchange of ideas and knowhow. In addition, people coming from other nations to do business and work bring with them their own cultures, which influence and mix with other cultures.

The many types of exchange that globalization facilitates can have positive and negative effects. For instance, the exchange of people and goods across borders can bring fresh ideas and help business. However, this movement can also heighten the spread of disease and promote ideas that might destabilize political economies.

History of globalization
Although many people consider globalization a twentieth century phenomenon, the process has been happening for millennia. Examples include the following:

The Roman Empire. Going back to 600 B.C., the Roman Empire spread its economic and governing systems through significant portions of the ancient world for centuries.
Silk Road trade. These trade routes, which date from 130 B.C. to 1453 A.D., represented another wave of globalization. They brought merchants, goods and travelers from China through Central Asia and the Middle East to Europe.
Pre-World War I. European countries made significant investments overseas in the decades before World War I. The period from 1870 to 1914 is called the golden age of globalization.
Post-World War II. The United States led the effort to create a global economic system with a set of broadly accepted international rules. Multinational institutions were established such as the United Nations (UN), International Monetary Fund, World Bank and World Trade Organization to promote international cooperation and free trade.
The term globalization as it's used today came to prominence in the 1980s, reflecting several technological advancements that increased international interactions. IBM's introduction of the personal computer in 1981 and the subsequent evolution of the modern internet are two examples of technology that helped drive international communication, commerce and globalization.

Globalization has ebbed and flowed throughout history, with periods of expansion and retrenchment. The 21st century has witnessed both. Global stock markets plummeted after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the United States, but rebounded in subsequent years.

More recently, nationalist political movements have slowed immigration, closed borders and increased trade protectionism. The pandemic has had similar effects on borders and immigration and also disrupted supply chains. However, overall, the early 21st century has seen a dramatic increase in the pace of global integration. Rapid advances in technology and telecommunications are responsible for much of this change.

What is the G20?
The G20, or Group of Twenty, is an international forum that aims to foster international cooperation by addressing global economic issues, such as  financial stability and climate change. The G20 is made up of 19 countries and the European Union, including most of the world's largest economies.

The nations involved account for 60% of the planet's population, 75% of global trade and 80% of world GDP. It was founded in 1999, following the 1997 financial crisis, and has met every year since then.

Since 2008, the G20 has held an annual summit that brings together heads of state to discuss important economic issues. The G20's president is selected annually on a rotating basis, and that person's home country hosts the summit.

In 2019, the summit was held in Osaka, Japan, and it addressed issues such as women's empowerment, climate change and artificial intelligence. The 2020 summit was to be in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, but was held virtually because of the pandemic. Three of the main themes addressed were empowering people, especially women and youth; safeguarding the planet; and long-term strategies to share the benefits of innovation and technological advancement. The 2021 summit will be held in Rome, Italy, and will focus on recovery from the pandemic and climate change.

The members of G20 are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union. Spain is a permanent guest of the organization.

Types of globalization: Economic, political, cultural
There are three types of globalization.

Economic globalization. Here, the focus is on the integration of international financial markets and the coordination of financial exchange. Free trade agreements, such the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Trans-Pacific Partnership are examples of economic globalization. Multinational corporations, which operate in two or more countries, play a large role in economic globalization.
Political globalization. This type covers the national policies that bring countries together politically, economically and culturally. Organizations such as NATO and the UN are part of the political globalization effort.
Cultural globalization. This aspect of globalization focuses in a large part on the technological and societal factors that are causing cultures to converge. These include increased ease of communication, the pervasiveness of social media and access to faster and better transportation.
These three types influence one another. For example, liberalized national trade policies drive economic globalization. Political policies also affect cultural globalization, enabling people to communicate and move around the globe more freely. Economic globalization also affects cultural globalization through the import of goods and services that expose people to other cultures.

Effects of globalization
The effects of globalization can be felt locally and globally, touching the lives of individuals as well as the broader society in the following ways:

Individuals. Here, a variety of international influences affect ordinary people. Globalization affects their access to goods, the prices they pay and their ability to travel to or even move to other countries.
Communities. This level encompasses the impact of globalization on local or regional organizations, businesses and economies. It affects who lives in communities, where they work, who they work for, their ability to move out of their community and into one in another country, among other things. Globalization also changes the way local cultures develop within communities.
Institutions. Multinational corporations, national governments and other organizations such as colleges and universities  are all affected by their country's approach to and acceptance of globalization. Globalization affects the ability of companies to grow and expand, a university's ability to diversify and grow its student body and a government's ability to pursue specific economic policies.
While the effects of globalization can be observed, analyzing the net impact is more complex. Proponents often see specific results as positive and critics of globalization view the same results as negative. A relationship that benefits one entity may damage another, and whether globalization benefits the world at large remains a point of contention.

Comparison of internationalization and localization product strategies
Internationalization and localization are both product strategies used in globalizing industries.
Examples of globalization
Multinational corporations are a tangible example of globalization. Some examples include the following:

McDonald's had 39,198 fast-food restaurants in 119 countries and territories, according to its Securities and Exchange Commission filing at the end of 2020. It employed more than 2.2 million people at that time, the filing said.
Ford Motor Company reported in 2021 that it works with about 1,200 tier 1 suppliers around the globe.
Amazon's recent expansion has it using tens of thousands of suppliers and employing more than nearly 1.3 million full- and part-time employees.
Through their influence on social and economic development in the countries that host them, multinational corporations embody the contradictions of globalization. They bring jobs, skills and wealth to the region they are investing or doing business in. But they also can destroy local businesses, exploit cheap labor and threaten indigenous cultures. The benefits they offer are often unsustainable because the loyalty of multinationals is to their investors and bottom lines and not to the local people, economies and cultures where they are doing business.

Another example of globalization is the response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Because the world was able to communicate across boundaries, nations were able to work together to quickly produce vaccines for the virus. In addition, doctors traveled where they were needed. For example, Cuba sent doctors to Italy at the beginning of the pandemic to assist with the crisis as it developed there.

However, countries also enacted strict travel restrictions and many closed their borders to cut down on the free movement of people and spread of the virus.

Benefits of globalization
Globalization enables countries to access less expensive natural resources and lower cost labor. As a result, they can produce lower cost goods that can be sold globally. Proponents of globalization argue that it improves the state of the world in many ways, such as the following:

Solves economic problems. Globalization moves jobs and capital to places that need these resources. It gives rich countries access to lower cost resources and labor and poorer countries access to jobs and the investment funds they need for development.
Promotes free trade. Globalization puts pressure on nations to reduce tariffs, subsidies and other barriers to free trade. This consequently promotes economic growth, creates jobs, makes companies more competitive and lowers prices for consumers.
Spurs economic development. Theoretically, globalization gives poorer countries access to foreign capital and technology they would not otherwise have. Foreign investment can result in an improved standard of living for the citizens of those nations.
Encourages positive trends in human rights and the environment. Advocates of globalization point to improved attention to human rights on a global scale and a shared understanding of the impact of people and production on the environment.
Promotes shared cultural understanding. Advocates view the increased ability to travel and experience new cultures as a positive part of globalization that can contribute to international cooperation and peace.
Negative consequences of globalization
Many proponents view globalization as way to solve systemic economic problems. But critics see it as increasing global inequality. Among the critiques of globalization are the following issues:

Destabilizes markets. Critics of globalization blame the elimination of trade barriers and the freer movement of people for undermining national policies and local cultures. Labor markets in particular are affected when people move across borders in search of higher paying jobs or companies outsource work and jobs to lower cost labor markets.
Damages the environment. The transport of goods and people among nations generates greenhouse gas and all the negative effects it has on the environment. Global travel and trade also can introduce, sometimes inadvertently, invasive species to foreign ecosystems. Industries such as fishing and logging tend to go where business is most lucrative or regulations are less strict, which has resulted in overfishing and deforestation in some parts of the world.
Lowers living standards. When companies move operations overseas to minimize costs, such moves can eliminate jobs and increase unemployment in sectors of the home country.
Facilitates global recessions. Tightly integrated global markets carry a greater risk of global recessions. The 2007-2009 financial crisis and Great Recession is a good example of how intertwined global markets are and how financial problems in one country or region can quickly affect other parts of the world. Globalization reduces the ability of individual nations to effectively use monetary and fiscal policy to control the national economy.
Damages cultural identities. Critics of globalization decry the decimation of unique cultural identities and languages that comes with the international movement of businesses and people. At the same time, the internet and social media are driving this trend even without the movement of people and commerce.
Increases the likelihood of pandemics. Increased travel, critics say, has the potential to increase the risk of pandemics. The H1N1 (swine flu) outbreak of 2009 and coronavirus in 2020 and 2021 are two examples of serious diseases that spread to multiple nations quickly.
Future of globalization
Technological advances, particularly blockchain, mobile communication and banking, are fueling economic globalization.

Nonetheless, rising levels of protectionism and anti-globalization sentiment in several countries could slow or even reverse the rapid pace of globalization. Nationalism and increasing trends toward conservative economic policies are driving these anti-globalization efforts.

Global trade is also made more difficult and facing rising threats from other factors, such as these:

climate change
decaying infrastructure
cyber attacks
human rights abuses
The takeaway
Globalization is a longstanding trend that is in the process of changing and possibly slowing. There are advantages to the more open border and free trade that globalization promotes, as well as negative consequences.

In a modern, post-pandemic world, individuals, businesses and countries must consider both sides of the globalization issue. Learn how companies are rethinking global supply chains to avoid disruption and reap the benefits of globalization.

Chapter 2: Structures of Globalization

hello there students

now we will be having our next topic

which is the structures of globalization

so what do we mean by structures of

globalization

all we know is that everything comes

with different structures when there is

a process

and when there is something that is

inevitable

there should be a structure on it

therefore

when we discuss about globalization

therefore

we are trying to discuss the structures

of globalization in understanding the

structures of globalization

it is divided into three first

this three are social political

and economic first is

social what do we mean by social

globalization

social globalization is a measure of how

easily

information and ideas passed between

people in their own country and between

different countries includes the access

to internet

and social media networks meaning to say

when we are talking about

social globalization it tackles mainly

the interaction and interconnectedness

of people through information

and ideas how do this information

and ideas transferred from one place to

the other

or from one medium to the other okay

next is political globalization

what do we mean by political

globalization political globalization is

the amount of political

cooperation there between countries

take note when there are countries

when there are countries connecting or

interacting with each other

therefore they are on the process of

globalization

however when they go along on the

structure

therefore as they interact

and thus create what we call cooperation

therefore they are now doing political

globalization all right okay like for

example

if just if countries are just exchanging

information and ideas

this are what we call only social

globalization but if these countries

are now doing doing not just

sharing ideas and information but they

are now

co operating towards a common goal

and therefore that is what we call as

political

globalization next stop is

the very most important and the

triggering part

of globalization and that is what we

call as

economic globalization on our previous

discussions we have discussed that

economic globalization

is the main main um

tool towards achieving globalization

or economy itself is one of its

push towards globalization so what does

it mean by economic globalization

when we are discussing economic

globalization it is

countries that trade with many other

countries

and few trade barriers are economically

globalized

what does it mean when countries

exchange

information and ideas that involves

now cooperation and thus

creates money or thus

creates wealth to a specific country

and thus um interact

through the supply and demand chain

therefore

it happens already what we call as

economic globalization

however in in today's contemporary world

we also discussed that through economic

globalization

we are now reducing or decreasing

few trade barriers like for example

the tariffs and taxes we have

still we are decreasing the amount of

taxes

we imposed to our imports and thus to

our

exports okay so today

before we discuss before we discuss

social and political let us first

discuss

what is economic globalization because

economic economy is the basic foundation

in which in which

we should given primary importance in

understanding the structure and thus

globalization itself all right

so what does it mean when we are talking

about

economic globalization to further extend

its definition

it is what we call as the free movement

of goods capital services

technology and information

meaning to say that there is already

what we call

as movement and thus going back to the

metaphors we are using in globalization

movements in the contemporary world

and globalization is from solid to

liquid

thus in the economic globalization the

movement of

goods capital services and technology

and information

are on the liquid state

moreover it refers to the increasing

interdependence

of world economies as a result of a

growing scale

of cross-border trade of commodity

and services of law of international

capital and wide of rapid

spread of technologies let us now

dissect

its definition this definition meaning

to say

through economic globalization countries

became interdependent among each other

meaning to say in their dependent

by not just relying to one country but

to

many countries by itself that

thus by relying or in being

interdependent with other countries

means that through economic

globalization

we are now fostering the two structures

of globalization

globalization which are the

social and political because

we are now exchanging information

and ideas by exchanging it therefore

we cooperate and that is why we are now

having

a boom economy among

each countries all right

in economic integration also in economic

globalization there is what we call as

economic integration

what does it mean by economic

integration

when we are talking about economic

integration

this is the process take note

again this economic integration this

is the process or arrangement

between regions or countries to reduce

or eliminate trade barriers what does it

mean by trade barriers

commonly trade barriers are your taxes

and your tariffs like for example your

iphones

your iphones being exported

iphones from us being exported to the

philippines

are what there are taxes

that is that is attached on it

so therefore we eliminate trade barriers

not by eliminating it by not not just

saying

that we will be vanishing or we will be

erasing taxes but we will be reducing

the taxes so that the imports and

exports would have

a greater height towards the exchange

in the process of economic integration

and to coordinate monetary and fiscal

policies with common purpose of

increasing the trade

to those countries involved take note

through economic integration we are now

increasing the trade towards

other countries meaning to say since

we're increasing trades from

economic countries therefore we are

increasing not just

the economic movement of other countries

but as well as our economic movement

that's why hoarding is not a solution

for everything

we need to say

then therefore we have to give it right

like for example on our rise in the

philippines

not necessarily that our rice is just

for filipinos

but to resolve but to resolve more

income and thus more economic movement

in our country therefore we have to

export

we have to export rights from other

countries such as vietnam

indonesia and many parts of

the world all right so

looking on the illustration here as you

can see

this are what we call as this um

illustration depicts what is economic

integration as a whole

take note this um this

four for um for land

here represents regions or countries

when these regions and countries tried

to collide

or tried to connect or interact with

each other

through trade therefore they are doing

economic integration thus

by doing economic integration therefore

there should be

policies right according to kimchi the

classroom

in the economic integration also there

are policies

that was made by whom by

countries by countries who are engaging

economic integration or trade so

therefore

they created monetary and fiscal

policies therefore they're trying to

create taxes

on how what are the taxes to be imposed

tariffs to be imposed on the products

they are trying

to do and thus they are doing fiscal

policies therefore

what are what are the extent or what are

the limitations

of the products being exported and

imported

from one country to the other country

therefore

through economic integration we could

now

reduce the cost what does it mean by

reduce the cost

therefore by reducing the cost we need

to say

we reduce we reduce the cost of our

imports and exports because we have

already connected with each other or we

are already connected with other

countries

that created with monetary and fiscal

policies therefore

we try to reduce the cost of our imports

and exports

as a result of the reduce of the cost

therefore

there is what we call as increase of

trade therefore we are now increasing

not just the supply and demand

but the trade not just from one country

but to the other countries as well

okay so what are our thoughts

of economic integration is it good or is

it bad

for a country the thoughts here

are first it improve the allocation of

natural resources meaning to say

since we have natural resources or we

have our resources therefore the

allocation of this resources

are well ba well been distributed

or it has been distributed properly

among not just in our country but to the

world

like for example are you familiar with

the coconuts that we are having here in

our country

did you know that our coconuts are

already one

of the biggest exported products

exported products around the world

because

we are not just trying to contain our

products here in the country

but we are trying to um we are trying to

deliver the best coconuts in our

best coconuts around the world right

at least

okay next is to promote

technology transfer what does it mean by

technology transfer

when we are trying to discuss about

technology transfer

this is where one technology

improves the other technologies

from one country like for example

let's go back to your agrarian agrarian

when when other countries

discover that there are alternatives

aside from your carabaos in

in doing in doing the chores in your

farm

therefore that it's what we call as

technology transfer

meaning to say as they invented one

product they are to share

they are to share and they are they let

other countries

try their products try their products so

that

we could have a better life on it

so that is what we call as technology

transfer

and lastly our thoughts about economic

integration is that

it enhanced the living standards of

every countries and thus every people

around the world through economic

integration

it creates more jobs it creates

it allocates natural resources which can

benefit

not just the host country but to the

other country as a whole

so that's it that's economic integration

now it economic integration there are

factors that affect economic integration

or

factors that results to us having

economic integration one of which is

regional integration what does it mean

by regional integration

now we are trying to create

organizations that promote

both political social

and economic cooperation and

development among countries meaning to

say

regional integration what is it in the

original integration

from one region since you're separate

from one countries

you are now merged as one organization

a very good example of the of this

is the asean or the association of south

east asian nations of which philippines

is one of the founding members

who created asean asean is one of

organization that helps that

help um philippines towards economic

integration because

the goal of the cn is creating a

political

and economic prosperity among countries

in asia or in south east asia another

which

is european union this are countries

from europe

countries from europe integrate with

each other and created

one organization or one common

cooperative

and that is what they call as european

union

and thus this is the leading

organization around the globe

which has their own currency their own

government their own courts and many

others

this is one of a very good example of an

international organization

of which we will be discussing today on

the next succeeding topics

next one is trade liberalization

when we are discussing trade

liberalization we have discussed earlier

that we

are trying to eradicate

erase and thus um remove

the barriers that affect the

trading process of one country to the

other

so that is what we call as trade

liberalization however this

this does not mean that when we are

liberating trade

we do not follow policies right we still

follow policies and laws that

the that countries um tried

to create okay so that's trade

liberalization

now foreign direct investment

what does it mean by foreign direct

investment this

are what we call as investors

that is coming from a foreign land

like for example the build build build

program of the government yes we have

this

we have this program however we lack

finances on it

so where do we look for finances

finances on it

we try to have a foreign direct

investment

we try to look foreigners or countries

to invest

on our projects here in our country

that's why in the build build build

program of the government

china is one of the leading investors

of this build build build project

however

their investments is a sort of um

depths or

another example is on our corporations

corporations and um

corporations and organizations in the

philippines

there are foreign direct investors

that tried to build this

um corporations right because

corporations cannot go along with just

a one-man rule there are a lot of

investors in it

right so investors

that helped the corporations to grow

and expand more like for example

your jollibee jollity has foreign direct

investment

and one of the trending topics today is

the deto telecommunication

of which one of the foreign direct

investment that owns

40 percent of the share of the detail

direct investment is a chinese

chinese government or a chinese owned

franchise of a telecommunication however

because it is not allowed

in the philippine laws that we exceed

that corporations should be owned

um six or fifty percent or beyond

by a filipino filipino citizen

all right

next stop privatization

what does it mean by privatization

privatization is one of the good example

is

are you familiar during the time of

marcus of which

meralco is owned by the government

however after the martial law

and the government have suffered a lot

due to death

and um due to death and many finances

many finances therefore the government

resulted

to to sell to sell miracle to a

private private entity and that is the

lupus

therefore that is what they call as

privatization

from a government-owned institution or

corporation therefore

it was transferred or sold sold to a

private entity so that

the services that this corporation is

rendering

will will still continue

all right that's privatization another

example

is one of the assumptions assumptions

and theories that we we are having today

is about

field health right field health is

trying

they are trying to expose the

corruptions of field health therefore

this is now trying to lead to the

distrust of the agency

that the government can no longer handle

the corruption issues then therefore

maybe the government will result now to

privatization we need to say

our major health provider or major

health um agency in the country that

helps

everyone else is

is now getting into into a scare

which is privatizing field health

all right next stop

is deregulation what does it mean by the

regulation

the regulation means that there is a

limited intervention of the government

towards the towards trade

towards businesses and towards

corporations

around its sovereignty the regulation

mean to say

that the government has limited not

totally no

no no um not limited

it is not necessarily that the

government

has has what we call as

um intervention but it is limited

meaning to say

the free will of the people will also

prevail in creating new businesses

right so that this is what we call as

the result of the regulation is a free

market

system all right that's the regulation

we need to say

there's no control of the there's no

control of the government

towards the private private corporations

but

they are they are intervening when there

are

laws that being violated um people

being harmed by this corporations or

this

organization all right so those were

just

factors that that may

lead to economic integration

all right now we have discussed economic

integration

in line with economic globalization we

have what we call

as the barter trade system what does it

require what

what do we mean by barter trade system

when

when we are trying to to have barter

trade system it is an

old method of exchanging of goods

take note that take note it's very

familiar for you

because during the quarantine period we

are experiencing

what we call as barter trade system that

we try to barter

one good one one good to the other right

in an exchange of something like for

your louis vuitton you're just to

exchange it with one ice cream

wow so style this system has been used

for centuries and long before money was

invented take note

when you are trying to to deal with this

system

there's no money involved in it you're

just exchanging one good to the other

goats

no money involved right people exchange

services and goods for other services

and

goods in return a very good example is

that

in the philippines before we are we

already engaged

during the pre-hispanic during the

pre-colonial period of the philippines

we already engaged

this kind of system of which we engaged

on our chinese and arabs

of our gold our pearls

our um ourselves their silks in return

with our pearls and jewelries

or even our arms to exchange on it

so that's the water water trade system

that's the long long before system the

very first system

that was created that boosts the

economic

economic globalization not in the

contemporary world

but the previous era and the age

of the world right

now after after

um border trade system we already

created the ideology of mercantilism

what does it mean by the ideology of

mercantilism

it means that it is an economic system

of trade after barter trade system we

already stated mercantilism

of which of trade that spanned from 16th

to 19th

16th centuries 18th century mercantilism

was based on the idea

that the nation's wealth and power were

best served

by increasing exports and so involves

increasing trade take note

take note the you cannot you will not

become

a rich country if you are not

if you're ju if you will just contain

your wealth within your school

you just you need to you need to spread

it out

spread it out extend your borders

so that you could increase your wealth

in that country

that is why that's the idea of

mercantilism

particularly mercantilism trading

is very famili you're very familiar with

if you're if we will go back to your

history you'll be familiar

with this illustration this is the

triangular

trading happened before of which

we we already conducted trades

if this is the this is the north

triangular trade

of which we trade our our

resources resources take notes these are

not just natural resources

but this are resources because we

involve

people here that's why we involve slaves

to the americas try let's try to to deal

with it let's try to

connect this triangular let's start from

africa

africa has this textiles um

africa africa receives textiles

rom manufactured goods to africa

so therefore after which we trade now

slaves

to america then after taking slaves

the slaves is in turn we america gave

sugar tobacco and cotton to europe

this are just triangular trade happening

to the world before

so that's what we call as mercantilism

the increase of trade in the country

okay and truman

mercantilism through mercantilism

we also we also have to look on the gold

standard

later in our succeeding topics we will

discuss

what is the gold standard but today

let's have an introduction about gold

standard

before gold was the basis of the

exchange

of everything meaning to say the

exchange before

money was before paper money was

was created gold was the standard

the the more gold that the country has

that the country have therefore they are

the most rich

country in the most powerful country in

that time

a gold standard is a monetary system in

which

the standard economic unit of account

is based on a fixed quantity of gold

on a specific country the gold standard

has

widely used in the 19th and early part

of 20th century

because after the great depression of

america

the late president franklin roosevelt

have

turned gold standard into what we call

as

the dollar standard meaning to say the

exchange rate before was

gold therefore america changed it to a

dollar

standard that's why but in alamo when we

try to exchange

our dollars when we try to exchange one

peso

we try to exchange it with dollars why

not in yen

why not in but why not

in euros because we have already agreed

countries have already agreed that we

have one exchange

rate and that is dollar all right

after gold standard

now here

thus we have already know we already

know the economic

economic side of how the development of

the economic globalization

through the years and tell the

contemporary world

we have to understand of course the

indus

the industry that evolves us

how this industry transformed

from one from one in this from a one

great factory

to what it is today industry

had become industrialized many many

years ago

so we have to discuss industrial

revolution

transforming industries and innovation

when we try to discuss industrial

revolution

this is where we discuss about

how how factories how corporations

how corporations how corporations

change through time so first

we have to understand that it

is on the industry 1.0

that where during the 7 1784

where mechanization steam power

and weaving loom was created you need to

say

that we already created factories to

produce

more amounts of like for example

our dairy products our products that is

necessary necessary for us before

however in 1870 it was

changed it was changed it becomes

industry 2.0 where there is

already a mass production an

assembly line and electrical line

where beams were already exchanged

into more high more more high-tech

technology because why there is already

a high demand so therefore we have to

create

we have to create more supplies on the

high demand demand that's why

we created more factories on

it however factories were already

transformed

into on the creation of many many more

technologies that's why it happened here

the kind of revolt because

that kind of what on work they lose

their jobs people try to lose their jobs

because

they were what they were um

they were

they were um changed by

machines on this time and as time goes

by we have now

industry 3.0 where automation

computers and electronics where

napa and factory snap

however the limitless

because industry 3.0 has

a lot of of um machine involvement where

it becomes more automated more automated

and computers are running on

the factory and thus on today

we experience industry 4.0 where

we're doing a cyber physical system

where

internet of things and networks of which

today

we experience now um

in just a click of your hand you can now

already turn on your

lights at home right now

but just the click of your phone

automated

by industry 5.0 we are now

we are now replaced by robots our

industry will now be replaced by robots

so we need to say works a factory

they will they will be no longer in the

factories because they will be replaced

by robots so that's industry industrial

revolution

how industry evolved or evolved

through time okay

now in understanding the structure

we should know that who are

we already know this is the structure

this

is the structure but who are in that

structure

structure globalization

who are in the globalization there are

two

people there are two people there are

two

players or actors take note players

and actors of globalization enjoying the

structure

they involved in here these are the two

structures take note

this are what we call as international

organizations and second is

large manufacturing corporations

or corporations alone what do we mean by

international organizations it is

divided into three

the inter-governmental the supranational

and the non-governmental international

organizations in large manufacturing

corporations we have

multinationals and trans national

corporation so what are these actors

how do they play in how do they play in

the globalization

or how they create the structure

okay in the international organization

let us try to discuss first

international organization

international organizations are what we

call as

the major players in nation state

or our countries or states it promotes

take note of this

it promotes voluntary cooperation and

coordination

no one no one told these countries to

engage

but this is voluntary cooperation

it is divided into three the

intergovernmental

organization the supranational

organizations

and non-governmental organizations take

note

we could compare we could compare

international organizations

in your schools or in our school in our

school we have

different organizations like for example

you have

your med tech town sale

the pharmacy council the cba the

business accountancy council

the accounting council the is council

and many

organizations also in the international

organizations there are

um divided into three different

organizations

first is the intergovernmental

organizations

what does it mean by intergovernmental

organizations

intergovernmental organizations is it is

composed of nation

states that promote voluntary

take note of the word there voluntary

cooperation

coordination among its members

it is composed of countries take note of

nation states these are countries

that promote nation states are just a

political term you may use

countries that promote voluntary

cooperation and coordination among its

members

let's try to think that in the political

globalization

it happens their cooperation so the

cooperation

in the international in the contemporary

world are voluntary

okay

now decisions and agreements that happen

on this organization

are not enforceable meaning to say

you may or you may not follow

the you may not you may or you may not

follow

the orders and decisions of this

organization

members do not surrender any sovereignty

what does it mean by sovereignty

it means the independence and

power to control its people territory

um territory government

and country so dirigina surrenders a

country in

independence and in organization right

so a very good example of this

organizations are world trade

organization

world intellectual property organization

the asian development bank

the international c bid authority okay

let's try

to look world trade organization world

trade organization

are organizations which facilitates the

trading system

of the countries the world intellectual

property organization

is where they try to patent or they try

to

establish an ownership of a specific

intellectual property are you familiar

with

are you familiar with the logos the

logos that

that you could look like for mcdo and

jollibee can

the logo and jollibee there is what they

call us

can a little circle there which is r

r circle and an r or a circle with a c

that is what we call as meaning to say

meaning of that it

is already owned by a specific

entity meaning to say it is already

owned by a charlie b

it is already owned by a it's already

owned by a bdo

no one is allowed to copy on it or

otherwise

you will be sued

all right so that's the role of the

world intellectual property organization

they protect your own property like for

example you

if you become med tech or if you become

pharmacist or if you become a

businessman

if you discover something therefore you

have to register that one in the world

intellectual property organization

otherwise um others would copy it

then therefore

register anna

asian development bank this is a bank

where

um approved of loans countries

so there is

therefore we need asian development bank

for it

right international seabid authority

this is

the authority that protects our seabed

our oceans our seas the world health

organization you're very familiar with

it because world

world health organization is an

organization

of which tackles diseases illnesses

and health problems around the world

so they categorized like for example

they categorize diseases and illness

of high of a high level of

diseases okay so cyclobid needed

molecular or

pandemic epidemic or just

an outbreak so in an asia and we have

also the world

um the wildlife wealth fund worldwide

fund

which is it protects the animals and our

wildlife

so at least

next is um african union this is

this is the same with this is like the

same with

asean but african union is

an organization organization of

different countries

in africa but they are not enforceable

meaning to say unlike asean

and eu they are they are they are

forced to to abide the decisions and

agreements however

um of african union can no longer not

abide in it

okay so that's intergovernmental

organizations meaning to say

countries the exchange for the ideas and

information

another international organization is

supra

national organization what does it mean

by supranational organizations

this is where it is composed of nation

states or countries

that promote voluntary cooperation and

coordination among its members

it is the same with intergovernmental

organization

however it surrender their power

in specific hair areas of higher

organization

bilitant powers but they surrender

some a little a little powers

to this organization unlike with

intergovernmental organizations

surrender and sovereignty of young power

supranational organization decisions and

agreement must be obeyed

compared to intergovernmental

delay in supranational organizations

it must be obeyed they have often courts

the determined violations accord

are you familiar a very good example is

the huawei are you familiar with huawei

the huawei senso let

ios

which is an android that's why

huawei today is not android powered

os that is what what we call as embargo

right

for example philippines

so china therefore embargo nila

therefore we are being done with embargo

a very good example of this is united

nations if you're familiar to going to

celebrate every october

that's the united nations all of

all of um the decisions and agreements

must be obeyed in the united nations

right

um we have oecd we have international

labor organizations

we have nato what does it mean by nato

the north atlantic treaty organization

this are these are countries in the

north

that creates policies

for trade military and peace and

security

processes we have also asean we have

discussed asean

we have international monetary fund we

will discuss that one sooner in our

speeding topics

and we have european unions this are

supranational organizations

now moving forward with international

international non-governmental

organization meaning to say

that it is not created by an

international treaty or an

intergovernmental agreement meaning to

say

the entity is not a government unlike or

not

a country take note of that it's not a

nation state not a country and not a

government

it is solely created by people from

different countries okay they often

focus on

specific issues around the world so like

for example the issue on hunger

issue on hiv issue on human rights

they are created on it it is not for

profit voluntary associations

in which projects are funded meaning to

say dirini sila

but they are funded by

philanthropists or partially by

government

funding so

they are funded by some people or some

organizations

okay so this are the examples we have

the amnesty international if you're

familiar this is the best friend of

duterte

amnesty international which is they

tackle

the issue of human rights violations

happening and

on a country iso if you're familiar with

iso

international standard organization and

we have icc

the chamber of commerce

and we have also the international

chamber of commerce that's icc

we have icr or the international

committee on red cross

take note the red cross is a

non-governmental

organization or it's commonly known as

ngos

okay now

our last key player key player

in globalization is large

manufacturing corporations what do we

mean by large manufacturing corporations

this art corporations sell goods

and manufactured products to be used

all over the world take note

this corporations sell goods and

manufactured products to be used all

over the world

this are this is either multinational

corporations

or transnational corporations

what do we mean by multinational

corporations or what they call as

eminency it is what we call as the

global

corporations an entity that owns

and controls production of goods or

services

in one or more countries

aside from their home origin countries

take note multinational corporations

have

home origin countries

these are the features of mnc

multinational companies

own a home home company and its

subsidiaries

multinational corporations or companies

have centralized management system

meaning to say centralized managed

system

and multinational companies will face a

barrier

in decision making due to its

centralized

management system try to look at it on

the green

part on the green part try to look at

the map above

on the green part on the green part as

you can see

it is what we call as the home or region

of the multinational corporation and

it has subsidiaries

branches businesses nashe branches which

is the orange

however they have centralized management

system like for example

commodity home companies

subsidiaries

that is what what they call a

centralized management system

they will have the hard time to have

decision making because

if there is a problem if there is a

problem

on the one branch it will be resolved

on the main branch like for example

there is a problem in the philippines

therefore

the philippines cannot the philippine

branch cannot

decide because they have to go to the

u.s

branch so that so that

the u.s branch could decide

okay a very good example of it

is these products these are

multinational corporation

the procter and gamble your shampoos

take note your shampoos the nestle

your nido your nestle the 7-eleven

the very popular 7-eleven which is

7-eleven the mushroom

small corporation pero 711 is a very

booming industry why

because you have to try to look at it at

7-eleven

it's booming all around they are

emerging like mushrooms everywhere

mushrooms everywhere then people are

going to 7-eleven because 7-eleven is a

one-stop

shop where you can find everything right

you could buy

bullpen you could buy papers you could

buy floor walks you could buy

everything in seven eleven a small

like it's a paso sal nasari sari store

right seven eleven it's emerging like

for example

so

eleven try to look at it they're

they're they're booming they are like

mushrooms

has considered that factor but they are

booming today

right next is the jollibee your favorite

shall i be the filipino owned food chain

that controlled the world today

the burgers that you are using try to

look at it

the burgers that you are using the

burgers that you are eating

from mcdo is the supplier of your

burgers that you're eating in mcdo is

jollibee

before will have an activity sooner as

announced

you will know that the world before was

considered as

macdonification meaning to say has ruled

the world the fast food chain was ruled

[Music]

is now the leading company around the

world

and next up is the coca-cola

in a calabani coca-cola is a pepsi right

so multi-national corporations

of course karon si apple the the

macbooks and everything i watch

gatankilita we had fedex right this is a

multinational corporations

um

filipino filipino fedex clbc

and we have microsoft the volkswagen

as the leading and of course sony as one

of the multinational corporations

now let's try to compare what's

multinational corporations

compared to tnc or transnational

corporations

transnational corporations are

commercial

enterprise that operates

substantial facilities that does not

that does business in one more

in more than one country compared to

tien

compared to evan and c or multinational

corporations

wallacey home

origin country so try to look on the

features

transnational companies do not have

subsidiaries

but just have many companies meaning to

say

try to look on the map well i see a home

origin caton green

but the guns yet branches around the

world

transnational companies do not have

centralized

management system meaning to say

decisions

is

transnational companies are able to gain

more interest

in the local market scenes since they

maintain their own

system so

okay but the same product but they could

like for example

the philippines branch is

because it's a transnational corporation

they have their own management system

individualistic

okay

[Music]

you're toyota you're ford you're walmart

can you say walmart

is the snr

actually see walmart we have

glaxosmith clean which is

kanemu mahatambal and of course your

starbucks

starbucks because it's different

from one branch to the other branch

okay i guess that would be all

for today and i hope you

learned something with our discussion

about

the structures of globalization

specifically

on the global economy or economic

globalization


Gio Treb V. Rivera Contemporary WorldBSMT2BI. Structures of Globalization1. Global EconomyGlobal economy is the exchange of goods and services integrated into a huge singleglobal market. It is virtually a world without borders, inhabited by marketing individualsand/or companies who have joined the geographical world with the intent of conductingresearch and development and making sales.International   trade   permits   countries   to   specialize   in   the   resources   they   have.Countries benefit by producing goods and services they can provide most cheaply andby   buying   the   goods   and   services   other   countries   can   provide   most   cheaply.International  trade   makes  it  possible   for   more   goods  to   be   produced   and   for  morehuman wants to be satisfied than if every country tries by itself to produce everything itneeds.2. Market Integration3. According   to   the   Cambridge   Business   English   Dictionary,   Market   Integration   is4. a situation   in   which separate   markets for   the   same product become   one single   market,5. for example when an import tax in one of the market is removed.6.   Integration is taken to denote a state of affairs or a process involving attempts to combine7. separate national economies into larger economic regions (Robson, 1998, p.1)According   to   the   Cambridge   Business   English   Dictionary, Market   Integrationis a situation   in   which separate   markets for   the   same product become   one singlemarket, for example when an import tax in one of the markets is removed. Integration istaken to denote a state of affairs or a process involving attempts to combine separatenational economies into larger economic regions (Robson, 1998, p.1)3. Global Interstates SystemOnly the modern world-system has become a global (Earth-wide) system composedof   national   societies   and   their   states.   It   is   a   single   global   economy   composed   ofinternational trade and capital flows, transnational corporations that produce productson   several   continents,   as   well   as   all   the   economic   transactions   that   occur  withincountries and at local levels. The whole world-system is more than just internationalrelations. It is the whole system of human interactions. The world economy is now allthe economic interactions of all the people on Earth, not just international trade andinvestment.The modern world-system is structured politically as an interstate system – a systemof competing and allying states. Political Scientists commonly call this the internationalsystem, and it is the main focus of the field of International Relations. Some of thesestates are much more powerful than others, but the main organizational feature of the
Gio Treb V. Rivera Contemporary WorldBSMT2Bworld political system is that it is multicentric. There is, as yet, no world state. Ratherthere is a system of states. This is a fundamentally important feature of the modernsystem and of earlier regional world-systems as well.  When we compare different kinds of world-systems it is important to use conceptsthat are applicable to all of them. “Polity” is a general term that means any organizationwith a single authority that claims control over a territory or a group of people. Politiesinclude bands, tribes and chiefdoms as well as states and empires. All world-systemsare   composed   of   multiple   interacting   polities.   Thus,   we   can   fruitfully   compare   themodern interstate system with earlier interpolity systems in which there were tribes orchiefdoms, but no states. So, the modern world-system is now a global economy with a global political system(the modern interstate system). It also includes all the cultural aspects and interactionnetworks   of   the   human   population   of   the   Earth.   Culturally   the   modern   system   iscomposed   of:   several   civilizational   traditions,   (e.g.   Islam,   Christendom,   Hinduism,Confucianism,   etc.),   nationally-defined   cultural   entities   --   nations   (and   these   arecomposed of class and functional subcultures, e.g. lawyers, technocrats, bureaucrats,etc.),   and the   cultures   of   indigenous   and   minority   ethnic   groups   within   states.   Themodern   system   is   multicultural   in   the   sense   that   important   political   and   economicinteraction networks connect people who have rather different languages, religions andother cultural aspects. Earlier world-systems have also been multicultural.4. Contemporary Global GovernanceGlobal   governance   as   a   subject   field   entails   an   interdisciplinary   examination   ofpower and authority in the global arena and examines the variety of actors, institutions,ideas,   rules,   and   processes   that   contribute   to   the   management   of   global   society,exploring their origins, their evolving roles, as well as their political, economic, social,environmental,   and   ethical   consequences.   In   addition   to   considering   internationalorganizations   and   inter-state   interactions,   global   governance   gives   critical   focus   tovarious   non-state   actors,   formal   and   informal   networks,   and   broader   transnational,supranational, and sub-national realities of contemporary life that increasingly contributeto the establishment and functioning of global rules, norms and institutions.The   study   of   global   governance   is   a   rapidly   growing   interdisciplinary   field   ofresearch   where   scholars   and   practitioners   from   various   academic   and   professionalbackgrounds come  together   to   focus on   governance   issues   relating  to fundamentalproblems in   global   affairs.   In   this   field,   policy-relevant   research   and   teaching  aboutproblems of global governance go beyond the rigidities and formalities of establisheddisciplinary   boundaries   to   be   effective.   Global   governance   issues   are   sufficientlycomplex   that   an   interdisciplinary   approach   to   their   study   is   necessary.   Our   Globalgovernance  issues  are  complex,  which  demands  an  interdisciplinary  approach. Thisinterdisciplinary program is designed to meet these needs.
Gio Treb V. Rivera Contemporary WorldBSMT2BII. A world of Regions1. The global divides; north and south(on next page)2. Asian regionalismAsian regionalism is the product of economic interaction, not political planning. As aresult of successful, outward oriented growth strategies, Asian economies have grownnot only richer, but also closer together. In recent years, new technological trends havefurther strengthened ties among them, as have the rise of the PRC and India and theregion’s growing weight in the global economy. But adversity also played a role. The1997/98 financial crisis dealt a severe setback to much of the region, highlighting Asia’sshared   interests   and   common   vulnerabilities   and   providing   an   impetus   for   regionalcooperation. The challenge now facing Asia’s policy makers is simply put yet incrediblycomplex: Where markets have led, how should governments follow?In the early stages of Asia’s economic takeoff, regional integration proceeded slowly.East Asian economies, in particular, focused on exporting to developed country marketsrather  than   selling   to   each   other.   Initially,  they   specialized  in   simple,  labor-intensivemanufactures. As the  more advanced among them graduated to more sophisticatedproducts, less developed economies filled the gap that they left behind. The Japaneseeconomist Akamatsu (1962) famously compared this pattern of development to flyinggeese. In this model, economies moved in formation not because they were directlylinked to each other, but because they followed similar paths. Since these developmentpaths hinged on sequential—and sometimes competing—ties to markets outside theregion, they did not initially yield strong economic links within Asia itself.SNow,   though,  Asian   economies   are   becoming   closely   intertwined.   This   is   notbecause   the   region’s   development   strategy   has   changed;   it   remains   predominantlynondiscriminatory   and   outward-oriented.   Rather,   interdependence   is   deepeningbecause   Asia’s   economies   have   grown   large   and   prosperous   enough   to   becomeimportant to each other, and because their patterns of production increasingly depend.ReferencesAsia Development bank (2008). Emerging Asian Regionalism Retrieved from: https://aric.adb.org/emergingasianregionalism/pdfs/Final_ear_chapters/chapter%202.pdf
Gio Treb V. Rivera Contemporary WorldBSMT2BDunn, CC. (2014). IROWS86. Retrieved from: https://irows.ucr.edu/papers/irows86/irows86.htmMaxwell, G. "Global Economy ." Encyclopedia of Business and Finance, 2nd ed. . . RetrievedJanuary 23, 2020 from Encyclopedia.com: https://www.encyclopedia.com/finance/finance-and-accounting-magazines/global-economy  “What is Global governance?” Retrieved from: https://www.balsillieschool.ca/faq-items/what-is-global-governance/

THE GLOBAL ECONOMY

The global economy has changed significantly over the past few decades, in the way that it is organised and governed by collaborating nations. These changes have repercussions that not only affect the flow of goods and services between countries, but also the movement of people. As we’ve seen on occasions over the last century, too great a fluctuation in this international economic system can lead to a global economic crisis.

So what exactly is the global economy, how does it function, and how does it affect our lives? Here we take a closer look to help you understand the complexities of the force that governs the modern world!

What is a global economy?
The global economy refers to the interconnected worldwide economic activities that take place between multiple countries. These economic activities can have either a positive or negative impact on the countries involved.

The global economy comprises several characteristics, such as:

Globalisation: Globalisation describes a process by which national and regional economies, societies, and cultures have become integrated through the global network of trade, communication, immigration, and transportation. These developments led to the advent of the global economy. Due to the global economy and globalisation, domestic economies have become cohesive, leading to an improvement in their performances.
International trade: International trade is considered to be an impact of globalisation. It refers to the exchange of goods and services between different countries, and it has also helped countries to specialise in products which they have a comparative advantage in. This is an economic theory that refers to an economy's ability to produce goods and services at a lower opportunity cost than its trade partners.
International finance: Money can be transferred at a faster rate between countries compared to goods, services, and people; making international finance one of the primary features of a global economy. International finance consists of topics like currency exchange rates and monetary policy.
Global investment: This refers to an investment strategy that is not constrained by geographical boundaries. Global investment mainly takes place via foreign direct investment (FDI).
Why is the global economy important?
We can understand the importance of the global economy by looking at it in relation to emerging markets:

Economic importance at a micro and macro level: The increase in the world’s population has led to emerging markets growing economically, making them one of the primary engines of world economic growth. The growth and resilience shown by emerging markets is a good sign for the world economy. Before delving into the next point, you need to understand the concept of microeconomics. It refers to the study of the behaviour of households, individuals, and firms with respect to the allocation of resources and decision-making. In simpler terms, this branch of economics studies how people make decisions, what factors affect their decisions, and how these decisions affect the price, demand, and supply of goods in the market. Therefore, from the perspective of microeconomics, some of the largest firms with high market value and a few of the richest individuals in the world hail from these emerging markets, which has helped in the higher distribution of income in these countries. However, many of these emerging countries are still plagued by poverty, and work still needs to be done to work towards eradicating it.
Long-term world economic outlook: According to financial and economic projections based on demographic trends and capital productivity models, the GDP in emerging market economies in 2019 are likely to keep increasing at a positive rate. According to an emerging markets economic forecast for 2019 conducted by Focus Economics, the economy is set to increase by 7.5% in India, 6.6% in Philippines, 6.3% in China, 5.3% in Indonesia, 5.1% in Egypt, 4.9% in Malaysia, 3.8% in Peru and 3.7% in Morocco.
Who controls the global economy?
Many people think that the global economy is controlled by governments of the largest economies in the world, but this a common misconception. Although governments do hold power over countries’ economies, it is the big banks and large corporations that control and essentially fund these governments. This means that the global economy is dominated by large financial institutions. According to world economic news, US banks participate in many traditional government businesses like power production, oil refining and distribution, and also the operating of public assets such as airports and train stations. This was proven when certain members of the US Congress sent a letter to the Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. Here’s an excerpt from the letter:

“Here are a few examples. Morgan Stanley imported 4 million barrels of oil and petroleum products into the United States in June, 2012. Goldman Sachs stores aluminium in vast warehouses in Detroit as well as serving as a commodities derivatives dealer. This “bank” is also expanding into the ownership and operation of airports, toll roads, and ports. JP Morgan markets electricity in California.

In other words, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley are no longer just banks – they have effectively become oil companies, port and airport operators, commodities dealers, and electric utilities as well.”

How does the global economy work?
The functioning of the global economy can be explained through one word —transactions. International transactions taking place between top economies in the world help in the continuance of the global economy. These transactions mainly comprise trade taking place between different countries. International trade includes the exchange of a variety of products between countries. It ranges all the way from fruits and foods, to natural oil and weapons. Such transactions have a number of benefits including:

Providing a foundation for worldwide economic growth, with the international economy set to grow by 4% in 2019 (source: World Trade Organisation);
Encouraging competitiveness between countries in various markets;
Raising productivity and efficiency across countries;
Helping in the development of underdeveloped countries by allowing them to import capital goods (machinery and industrial raw materials) and export primary goods (natural resources and raw materials).
What are the effects of global economy?
Nearly every country in the world is in some way affected by things that happen in what may seem at times, like unrelated countries - due to the influence of the global economy. A good example of this is the economic impact that the Brexit vote will have other countries, not only in Europe, but across the globe. Brexit was referendum decision for the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union (EU).

The main cause of these effects is economics — based on the production and exchange of goods and services. Restrictions on the import and export of goods and services can potentially hamper the economic stability of countries who choose to impose too many.

The purpose of international trade is similar to that of trading within a country. However, international trade differs from domestic trade in two aspects:

The currencies of at least two countries are involved in international trade, so they must be exchanged before goods and services can be exported or imported;
Occasionally, countries enforce barriers on the international trade of certain goods or services which can disrupt the relations between two countries.
Countries usually specialise in those products that they can produce efficiently, which helps in reducing overall manufacturing costs. Then, countries trade these products with other countries, whose product specialisation is something else altogether. Having greater specialisation helps countries take advantage of economies of scale. Economies of scale refer to the proportionate saving in costs gained by an increased level of production. Manufacturers in these countries can focus all their efforts on building factories for specialised production, instead of spending additional money on the production of various types of goods.

Occasionally countries add barriers to international trade. Some of these barriers include trade tariffs (taxes on imports) and trade quotas (limitation on the number of products that can be imported into a country). Trade barriers often affect the economies of the trading countries, and in the long run, it becomes difficult to keep employing such barriers.

What are the benefits of global economy?
There are numerous benefits of a global economy, which include:

Free trade: Free trade is an excellent method for countries to exchange goods and services. It also allows countries to specialise in the production of those goods in which they have a comparative advantage.
Movement of labour: Increased migration of the labour force is advantageous for the recipient country as well as for the workers. If a country is going through a phase of high unemployment, workers can look for jobs in other countries. This also helps in reducing geographical inequality.
Increased economies of scale: The specialisation of goods production in most countries has led to advantageous economic factors such as lower average costs and lower prices for customers.
Increased investment: Due to the presence of global economy, it has become easier for countries to attract short-term and long-term investment. Investments in developing countries go a long way in improving their economies.
Factors affecting global economy
According to the latest economic news, here are some of the key factors that influence and affect how well the global economy works:

Natural resources;
Infrastructure;
Population;
Labour;
Human capital;
Technology;
Law.

Global Economic Growth Slows Amid Gloomy and More Uncertain Outlook
The world’s three largest economies are stalling, with important consequences for the global outlook. Inflation is a major concern. 
Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas
July 26, 2022
The global economy, still reeling from the pandemic and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, is facing an increasingly gloomy and uncertain outlook. Many of the downside risks flagged in our April World Economic Outlook have begun to materialize.

Higher-than-expected inflation, especially in the United States and major European economies, is triggering a tightening of global financial conditions. China’s slowdown has been worse than anticipated amid COVID-19 outbreaks and lockdowns, and there have been further negative spillovers from the war in Ukraine. As a result, global output contracted in the second quarter of this year.

Under our baseline forecast, growth slows from last year’s 6.1 percent to 3.2 percent this year and 2.9 percent next year, downgrades of 0.4 and 0.7 percentage points from April. This reflects stalling growth in the world’s three largest economies—the United States, China and the euro area—with important consequences for the global outlook.

In the United States, reduced household purchasing power and tighter monetary policy will drive growth down to 2.3 percent this year and 1 percent next year. In China, further lockdowns, and the deepening real estate crisis pushed growth down to 3.3 percent this year—the slowest in more than four decades, excluding the pandemic. And in the euro area, growth is revised down to 2.6 percent this year and 1.2 percent in 2023, reflecting spillovers from the war in Ukraine and tighter monetary policy.



Despite slowing activity, global inflation has been revised up, in part due to rising food and energy prices. Inflation this year is anticipated to reach 6.6 percent in advanced economies and 9.5 percent in emerging market and developing economies—upward revisions of 0.9 and 0.8 percentage points respectively—and is projected to remain elevated longer. Inflation has also broadened in many economies, reflecting the impact of cost pressures from disrupted supply chains and historically tight labor markets.



The risks to the outlook are overwhelmingly tilted to the downside:

The war in Ukraine could lead to a sudden stop of European gas flows from Russia
Inflation could remain stubbornly high if labor markets remain overly tight or inflation expectations de-anchor, or disinflation proves more costly than expected
Tighter global financial conditions could induce a surge in debt distress in emerging market and developing economies
Renewed COVID-19 outbreaks and lockdowns might further suppress China’s growth
Rising food and energy prices could cause widespread food insecurity and social unrest
Geopolitical fragmentation might impede global trade and cooperation.
In a plausible alternative scenario where some of these risks materialize, including a full shutdown of Russian gas flows to Europe, inflation will rise and global growth decelerate further to about 2.6 percent this year and 2 percent next year—a pace that growth has fallen below just five times since 1970. Under this scenario, both the United States and the euro area experience near-zero growth next year, with negative knock-on effects for the rest of the world.

Policy priorities

Inflation at current levels represents a clear risk for current and future macroeconomic stability and bringing it back to central bank targets should be the top priority for policymakers. In response to incoming data, central banks of major advanced economies are withdrawing monetary support faster than we expected in April, while many in emerging market and developing economies had already started raising interest rates last year.

The resulting synchronized monetary tightening across countries is historically unprecedented, and its effects are expected to bite, with global growth slowing next year and inflation decelerating. Tighter monetary policy will inevitably have real economic costs, but delaying it will only exacerbate the hardship. Central banks that have started tightening should stay the course until inflation is tamed.

Targeted fiscal support can help cushion the impact on the most vulnerable. But with government budgets stretched by the pandemic and the need for an overall disinflationary macroeconomic policy stance, offsetting targeted support with higher taxes or lower government spending will ensure that fiscal policy does not make the job of monetary policy even harder.

As advanced economies raise interest rates to fight inflation, financial conditions are tightening, especially for their emerging-market counterparts. Countries must appropriately use macroprudential tools to safeguard financial stability. Where flexible exchange rates are insufficient to absorb external shocks, policymakers will need to be ready to implement foreign exchange interventions or capital flow management measures in a crisis scenario.

Such challenges come at a time when many countries lack fiscal space, with the share of low-income countries in or at high risk of debt distress at 60 percent, up from about 20 percent a decade ago. Higher borrowing costs, diminished credit flows, a stronger dollar and weaker growth will push even more into distress.



Debt-resolution mechanisms remain slow and unpredictable, hampered by difficulties in obtaining coordinated agreements from diverse creditors over their competing claims. Recent progress in implementing the Group of Twenty’s Common Framework is encouraging, but further improvements are still urgently needed.

Domestic policies to address the impacts of high energy and food prices should focus on those most affected without distorting prices. Governments should refrain from hoarding food and energy and instead look to unwind barriers to trade such as food export bans, which drive world prices higher. As the pandemic continues, governments must step up vaccination campaigns, resolve vaccine distribution bottlenecks and ensure equitable access to treatment.

Finally, mitigating climate change continues to require prompt multilateral action to limit emissions and raise investment to hasten the green transition. The war in Ukraine and soaring energy prices have put pressure on governments to turn to fossil fuels such as coal as a stopgap measure. Policymakers and regulators should ensure such measures are temporary and only cover energy shortfalls, not increase emissions overall. Credible and comprehensive climate policies to increase green energy supply should be accelerated urgently. The energy crisis also illustrates how a policy of clean, green energy independence can be compatible with national security objectives.

The outlook has darkened significantly since April. The world may soon be teetering on the edge of a global recession, only two years after the last one. Multilateral cooperation will be key in many areas, from climate transition and pandemic preparedness to food security and debt distress. Amid great challenge and strife, strengthening cooperation remains the best way to improve economic prospects and mitigate the risk of geoeconomic fragmentation.

hello have a great day everyone welcome

to another session of uh lectures in

contemporary world

this time we are talking about global

economy

before we proceed to our discussion and

lectures on the global economy uh we'd

like to thank you everyone for following

me in our serious discussion for

contemporary world so

please don't forget to subscribe this

channel if this is your first time don't

forget to hit

the

subscribe button below and of course if

you want to

have more knowledge and information

about lectures and globalization and

contemporary world don't forget to click

the

notification bell for you to be updated

of our future videos in relation to

contemporary work so this day we are

going to talk about globalization

so we talk about globalization we are

talking the globalization

when we talk about world economics it's

also called to become uh it is also

called

the the world economy okay

so here comes our presentation of the

global economy

so what comes to your mind when you hear

the word global economy so there are

questions that you need to answer my

dear students when we are going to

discuss about global economy there are

three questions that you need to answer

uh the questions are there

in between of this lecture video okay so

um please watch the entire video because

there will be some questions to be given

maybe in the beginning in the middle and

at the end of the

lecture

okay so our questions will be given

right now and you need to answer that

one in our comment section okay our

first question goes like this no what

comes to your mind when you hear the

word globalization

uh global economy by anyway rather what

comes to your mind when you hear the

word global economy

so there is a picture there that you

need also to analyze that will help you

to understand what is global economy all

about so that's our first question

so when you hear the word global economy

it involves world economics

okay

so global economy refers

or also referred to world economy

refers to international exchange of

goods and services so as we start our

first lesson on the introduction to the

study of globalization we have

uh defined already what is globalization

but when you talk about global economy

it has a specific description or

definition when it comes to global

economy because when you talk about

globalization it also involves people

culture technology

and the rest but when we refer only to

global economy it

emphasizes on the trade

we also have the investment businesses

and the exchange of goods and services

internationally it may also mean as the

free movement of our goods capital

services technology and information so

basically when we talk about global

economy it involves trade transportation

and communication to repeat uh we have

trading we also have the transportation

and the communication so meaning to say

there is a picture here now talking

about the services that we offer from

one country to another country no that

is also called a part of the global

economy

so what is global economy yeah so this

definition will help us understand what

is global

so the global economy refers to

the

interconnected worldwide economic

activity so every country in the world

are interconnected with it with it with

its global economic activities that will

take place between multiple countries

this economy activities can have either

a positive and could also have a

negative impact on different countries

involved

so before we elaborate

on to the global economy let's start

first uh the two types of economies so

number one is protection and

protectionism and the second one is

trade liberalization or the free trade

no then the word liberalization refers

to free free trade most of the countries

in the world uh anchored or

adhered to this kind of kind of of

economy the trade really liberalization

or the free trade so let's start with

the protectionism what is protectionism

all about the word itself protect you

know a certain country protect its

economy and there is a less connection

with other countries protecting one

economy from foreign competition by

creating trade buyers so there is a bar

here you know they don't let other

countries to conduct trade

or delay or delimit the transaction the

trading between other countries and

among other countries

so

uh one good example of this is uh

north uh north korea which we can see

their their form of government their

economic form

uh the economic uh

platform is not using the free trade

they protect their own

country with other countries so they

could not easily uh other countries

could not easily conduct trade with with

their own country like north korea but

there are also other countries before

those that would like to protect their

own business their own uh products and

services that they would like

that

own country that their own economy will

be preserver by their own you know we

need to say like example

canada so canada before they have they

have

this kind of setup of economy no

protectionism some of their products for

example their dairy products no

uh they have a

high tariff

tax

so that is what they call uh trade

barriers so that other countries could

not trade could not export or import to

that certain country so if there is high

tariff tariff is a tax that you're going

to pay when you conduct trade with other

countries

so

uh the other hand we have the trade

liberalization or the free trade it

reduces the trade barriers no there is

no uh or the trade bloc or barriers to

make international trade easier between

countries so most of the countries as i

said in the world are adhering to this

kind of of

uh economy which they involve engage

them their their country to other

countries with less restriction less

barriers so that they could have a free

trade with other countries so for

example as i said earlier canada

from being protectionist country being

uh for having a protectionism the form

of economy

uh trades

so again these are the two types of

economies when we talk about global

economy so protectionism most of the

country uh if you if your country is a

communist country like north korea they

are using this kind of economy no there

is less

less trading that happen because there

is a high

trade barriers no protect they protect

their own economy from foreign

competition

okay so if there is a target no a tariff

is a tax that they are going to pay

so

uh if there is a high tariff tax that

they uh if a country would like to

engage with a uh trading if the target

is very high of course that could be uh

trade barriers because

the price not the tax that being

imposed to that kind of product no the

price of that will be doubled or

will have a high price because of of the

impact of the tax to that certain

product but if there is a less tariff

tariff tax to that kind of product when

it will be

exported to other countries so possibly

that that

price of that product will not go higher

uh

philippines

free trade

so

that's uh the two format of economy of

global economy

so

global economy is also called economic

globalization it is concerned with

globalization of production

finance

uh economic flow monetary flow markets

technology

organizational regimes and institutions

so we have different organization

international organizations which

involve to economic activities

now corporation we have also

multinational corporations companies and

labor

so

that also part of the economic

globalization or global economy those

international organization is a

financial institution

uh production of different products and

services

it is also uh it is expanding since the

emergence of transnational trade so

uh

due to

increased rate of communication and

technology

another thing the creation of world

trade no ambassador starting previous

discussion uh prior to what we have

right now the kind of tradings that we

experience

uh before we already engage our

ourselves our country to different uh

countries who conducted trade even

during the time of colonization now when

the philippines was colonized by

uh spain we have conducted two other

colonies of spain

like mexico

of trading that's what we call the

gallium trade or the manila

so how much more today because of the

expansion and emergence of transnational

trade it also increases the potential of

the increased rate of communication and

technology we can easily

communicate to one country to another

country so we can make an access to

trading a high rate of access to trading

because also of the increase of

communication and technology

okay

so part of of the global economy is

market

where itself integrate no

so prices among different locations or

related goods follow the same pattern

over a long period of time the market

integration exists

when group of prices often move

proportionally to each other and when

this relation is very clear among

different markets the market is

integrated

the market integration is an indicator

how much different markets are related

to

each other

so here comes the rule of international

financial institutions in the creation

of global economy

what are these ifi the international

financial institution so international

financial institutions are charactered

by more than one country therefore

subject to international law so each

country involved to this who are part of

the international financial institution

must be subject to international

agreements and law

the owners or the stakeholders or

shareholders and generally national

governments of course

when one country is going to involve or

engage their government to another

government the international treaties

for the international agreement

the the the main state actors are the

government you know the government of

each country all the other international

institutions and other organizations

occasionally figure as a shareholder

most of the professor from

most of the prominent ifi

are creations of multi multiple national

or multiple nations although some

bilateral financial institutions created

by two

exists are technically international

financial institutions so

this financial institution would be a

great help to improve the economy of a

certain country because we can borrow

monies for our investments for

for reconstruction of some

uh

due to calamities like our country you

know we really rely to this financial

institution uh international financial

institution that will let us borrow

money

to

for our loans not to supply our needs

our

government services

so

the international basic financial

institutions are example so we have the

international monetary fund

so we we all know what is imf now this

was created due to

uh the briton good system or the brittle

mood agreement after the world war ii a

series of war you know and we have also

the multi-developed multilateral

development banks which include the

world bank the african development bank

the asian development bank

inter-american development bank european

bank for construction and development

so these are also called regional

development banks not even in our uh in

uh the philippines are part of this now

uh some of regional development parks

like

asian development but philippines is

part of that

so how to become part of this uh

international financial institution

membership composition

only sovereign countries are admitted as

a member of member owner so what is this

sovereign country so this separate

country meaning this our state or nation

which is not under control by other

other nations so they are a free country

no meaning to say they

no one controls their country they have

their freedom like our country is a

sovereign state sovereign country

borough broad country members membership

to include the borrowing developing

countries and develop donor countries so

our country belongs to developing

countries now

we are no longer underdeveloped but we

are in the average developing countries

uh these developed countries like us

canada japan russia

they are considered also as a donor

countries no they are a good example of

donor countries to our country you know

philippines when there are some

calamities some

membership individual development plans

include colors around the world as

members now even though uh you are not

part of that region other countries

would also be part of it of that

regional

regional development plans it has its

own the independent legal and

operational states

so what

are the objectives of this international

financial institution

or the international monetary fund so

one of

uh imf provides temporary financial

assistance to member countries to help

ease balance of payments adjustment so

loans not to reconstruct loans no no we

have the long-term loans with with

maturities of up to 20 years so

philippines have a high credit limit

because

of the case that we can still pay our

debts to this international

uh international financial institution

because this international financial

institution will not let us borrow money

if we could have if we don't have the

capacity to pay you know so it's still

part of our general procession act or in

our national budget uh part of the

general part of the national budget of

our country is the payment of our debt

no

so these are the example of financing

finance

ma the

the different uh

terms of payment of our loans no we have

the long-term loans with maturities up

to 20 years so

interest rate maybe a lot maybe below

market rates funding comes from

international capital markets and relent

to borrowing government in developing

countries like our country we can avail

the long-term loans from the

international monetary fund the world

bank the asian development bank as we

are a member of that you know

we also have this very long-term loans

so 30 to 40 years

so grant financing by some of this

financial institution for technical

assistance advisory service or project

preparation

so we have another term here global

corporation so the global corporation is

one that operates in more than one

country it is also all the

multi-national corporations

now uh we have some discussion already

about the mnc for the multinational

corporation

no according to michael porter define

global businesses as one that maintains

a strong headquarters in one

investment in multiple foreign locations

so example of this are international

companies that we have here in our

country

okay so but it doesn't mean that you are

a multi uh you are

you are selling your product

from uh here to europe you are already a

multi cup multinational corporation or

company but before you could have that

label as a multinational corporation you

need to introduce your company to that

kind through the outside your country

like what we have the automobile

industries the telecommunication

industries

no

we have the different companies the

foods the

food the food chains you know the

international food chains the different

franchising companies that we have here

in our country are

also part of the global cooperation of

the multinational corporation

these are also called international

companies that has headquarters for

example in the united states but also

does businesses overseas and might have

a large presence in multiple areas such

as for example as i have i give you the

example of

of this convenience for like the

7-eleven that was originated in the

united states they could have also they

are their presence in other countries

are there already

these are example of company which has

performed business overseas

okay

so that's all about the the global

economy

so

to continue our discussion no

we talk about again another topic about

global uh economy

okay so let's go back again to this

discussion that we have this is just a

sort of review of what we have discussed

the globalization of world

economics so

we have defined several times about

global economic globalization

imf defined uh

defined economic globalization as a

circle process representing the result

of human innovation

technological progress it is

characterized by the increasing

integration of economies around the

world

this is also involves as i said about

trading exchange of products and

services and capital across borders

these changes are the products of people

organization institutions and

technologies

so

we have what we call the international

trading system you know

these are not new

this had been into our history in the

ancient times

there was already international trading

system and the oldest known

international trade growth that we have

is the self growth this silk road

uh this was initiated by the chinese

during their diagnosis during their the

progress of their civilization they have

connected their business their products

to european and some other middle east

countries so what is this silk road it

is a network of patois in ancient world

that span from china to what is now the

middle east and europe

so they have done a business trading

because this is the tradition and

culture of the chinese they are fun to

fund into

they are really into business and

trading so however while the

sub growth was international it was not

truly global because it had no ocean

roads that could reach american

continents oh it has a limit no only in

europe and middle east

okay so even in the past we have

exchanged our products now all important

populated contents began to change

product

continuously vote with each other

directly and indirectly the good example

of that is the galleon trade

you know that was uh yeah

that galleon trade

was the main source of income of of

spain during the spanish colonization to

philippines and mexico

and of course

during the spanish colonization the main

reason is to propagate christianity to

look for gold and of course to become

more powerful

and

that time during the galleon trade the

form of economy

is

mercantilism which is the basis of the

wealth of a certain country is their own

gold reserves

okay

so the system

all based on the value of gold that is

what they call

mercantilism

okay so going to the briton woods system

so

this is one example of opinion of an

international village organization that

was created after the second world war

no uh this uh after after the first and

second world war

world leader so to create global

economic system so that there will be

organized system of global economy this

britain would know that this was uh

initiated in the united states

that would ensure a longer lasting

global peace they believe that one of

the ways to achieve this goal was to set

up a network of global financial

institutions so that is our discussion

earlier you know we talked about the

um

the global corporate uh the global

economy you know that's what we call

um

the international financial institution

so one of that good exam that is a good

example

of

of um

global financial institution that briton

would sister

so

in the britainwood system the imf or the

international monetary fund and the

world bank

was created that is because of this

written goods system okay they believe

that one of the ways to achieve this

goal was to set up global network a

network of global financial institutions

that would promote economic

interdependence and prosperity

so in 1944 the britainwood system was

inaugurated

during the united nations monetary and

financial corporate conference this is

to prevent catastrophes of early decades

after

centuries decades of centuries from

reoccurring and affecting international

ties

so this is the briton woods no

was this britain woods was largely

influenced by the ideas of british

economist john maynard keynes so

this was the

pattern after the influence of john

maynard kenis one of the prominent

economies

so after this no because of the ritual

good system a critical institution

at the time when many of the world

cities have been destroyed because of

the war

so

there was a creation of international

financial institution the two we have

the imf and the international bank for

reconstruction and development which is

known today as world bank this is to

fund the post-war reconstruction project

so shortly after the britain was various

countries also committed themselves of

further global economic integration

through the gut and the wtl

so we will be talking about again

um

globalization

[Music]

the world that's not going become small

but because of financial institutions

because of market integration because of

global economy activities we can sense

that the world is becoming very small

not particularly

so this is now our second question

for this video so what comes to your

mind when you hear the word global

village what is all about global village

so give me your thoughts on global

village there these two terms are

totally opposite global and village no

so pinocchio according to marshall

mcluhan

we are see we are seeing we seems we it

seems that we are living in a global

village

so

historical perspective that is why we're

talking about the previous trades no the

value and trade the self growth and

other

international

financial institution

so let's focus on economic globalization

and this

on this presentation the globalization

economical or economic globalization

central and asian globalization economy

so we cannot really separate economics

technology

um

in the discussion of globalization

which which

revolves

some trading which revolves in trading

of different products and services

so before we wait for how many months

and years before a product will be able

to reach a certain country like in the

galleon trade you know where the

the

filipinos are going to trade our

products to

to mexico we all know that mexico is far

away from us miles

the distance is miles and miles away

from us so that was the trading pattern

before but today because of the advent

of technology we could easily get our

products we can easily change our

product because of the advent of

technology

so one is

so technology is the main mechanism why

there is globalization so there are two

important terms here we have the economy

and globalization

[Music]

we have

discussed this already you know in

during the

during the philippine uh when

philippines was followed as miss spain

there were and prior to the coming of

the spaniard the chinese conducted a

trade

to our country philippines so

even in the ancient time there was

already trading

yeah

like the

chinese in chinese dynasty they have

conducted trades among countries in

europe and middle east using the cell

road

now in the 19th century uh when

portuguese and spaniards became more

powerful

uh

they introduced us a format of of

economy which is the basis of of wealth

is the goal that's mercantilism

their main products

and of course in the 19th to 20th

century where revolution that's the

industrial revolution uh sprouted you

know mullah sahulin bahagin 18th century

hong kong's 19th century and

areas

so revolution industrial or the

industrial revolution started in europe

particularly in england or united

kingdom

so

during after the world war ii and

worldwide world war one and world war ii

so

we have introduced ourselves to the neo

liberalism which

world treaties and organizations

international financial organizations

started and the free market or the

capitalism was also introduced where

there is a free trading you know so

united nations monetary and financial

financial conference

so the britain roots is also called the

unmfc

united nations monetary and financial

conference

so

they have introduced the free market

system you know

this uh britain woods was inaugurated in

mount washington hotel britain woods new

hampshire okay

the main objective of this conference is

to rehabilitate

the trading

after the first world war and second

world war

because we have found out that there are

a lot of destruction

in our infrastructure and especially in

our economy after the world war so the

united nations they decided to create a

free market system through the britain

woods conference

because of the brittle wood system as i

discussed earlier

uh imf

ibrd or also called

and

international financial institutions

an international organization

multinational corporation private groups

and non-governmental organizations

world trade organization so the main

objectives of the world organization

uh is to create a rules and policy

when it comes to international trading

we also have regional organizations like

the united

european union union association of

southeast asian nation the asia pacific

economic council and oil patrol

petroleum exporting countries so this

our regional organization

international and regional organization

okay so let's talk about

gut and the wto so the god is a general

agreement on tariffs and trade say

there are 23 countries

signed the general agreement on targets

and trade because

once there is a trade although it's a

free or

whatever form of trading system there is

always what we call a tax rift atarix is

a foreign

to minimize the trade barrier so that we

can have a free trade because if there

is a high tariff tax

there could be a barrier of the free

trade

agricultural products like banana

we

export bananas but we need also to pay

at rf tax to the country that

[Music]

okay

okay so last we have the last slide

these are what we call the protective

barriers or protective muscles so that

so that our local products can also

compete through the international

products

uh portal products to other countries

although we have our local products we

have our own

local uh local portrait products

producers local farmers local poultry

growers

world trade organization from general

agreement uh general

agreement on trade and

an agreement

organization

so

i think we are done already talking

about the global economy so i hope that

you have learned something from our

today's discussion


MARKET INTEGRATION


Market integration is a term that is used to identify a phenomenon in which markets of goods and services that are somehow related to one another being to experience similar patterns of increase or decrease in terms of the prices of those products. The term can also refer to a situation in which the prices of related goods and services sold in a defined geographical location also begin to move in some sort of similar pattern to one another. At times, the integration may be intentional, with a government implementing certain strategies as a way to control the direction of the economy. At other times, the integrating of the markets may be due to factor such as shifts in supply and demand that have a spillover effect on several markets.

When a market integration exists, the events occurring within two or more markets are exerting effects that also prompt similar changes or shifts in other markets that focus on related goods. For example, if the demand for baby dolls within a given geographical market were to suddenly be reduced by 50%, there is a good chance that the demand for baby doll clothing would also decrease in proportion within that same geographical market. Should the baby market increase, this would usually mean that the market for doll clothing would also increase. Both markets would have the chance to adjust pricing in order to deal with the new circumstances surrounding the demand, as well as adjust other factors, such as production.

Assets related to a specific industry trade for the same price on stock exchanges around the world with a stock market integration.
Assets related to a specific industry trade for the same price on stock exchanges around the world with a stock market integration.
Market integration may occur with just about any type of related markets. With a stock market integration, similar trends in trading prices for assets related to a given industry may be found in two or more markets around the world. In like manner, financial market integration may occur when lending rates in several different markets begin to move in tandem with one another. In some cases, the integration within a nation may involve the emergence of similar patterns within the capital, stock, and financial markets, with those trends coming together to exert a profound influence on the economy of that nation.

Market integration can often be a very positive situation, especially if the emerging pattern regarding pricing is indicative of an increasingly prosperous economy. At the same time, assessing integration between markets can also be a useful tool in identifying trends that are less than desirable, and having the chance to begin reversing those trends while there is still time. For this reason, financial analysts as well as economists will often monitor activity in related markets, identify any signs of integration and make recommendations on what strategies could be used to make the most of the emerging situation.

MARKET INTEGRATIONI. Definition of Market IntegrationAccording to the Cambridge Business English Dictionary, Market Integration is a situationin   which separate   markets for   the   same product become   one single   market,for example when an import tax in one of the market is removed. Integration is taken to denote a state of affairs or a process involving attempts to combineseparate national economies into larger economic regions (Robson, 1998, p.1)II. Free Trade DefinitionFree Trade wherein international trade (the importation and exportation) left to its naturalcourse   without  tariffs   and   non-tariff   trade   barriers  such   as  quotas,  embargoes,sanctions or other restrictions. oTariffs - taxes or duties to be paid on a particular class of imports or exportsoEmbargo  -   a   government-instituted   prevention   of   exports   to   a   certain   country.Official ban on trade or other commercial activity. (The United States has imposedseveral   long-running  embargoes on   other countries including   Cuba,   North   Koreaand Iran)oEconomic sanctions  - commercial and financial penalties applied by one or morecountries against a targeted country, group, or individualFree Trade Areas  - a group of countries within  which tariffs and non-tariff trade barriersbetween the members are generally abolished but with no common trade policy toward non-members.   Both   in   the   sense   of  geography   and   price,   is   the   foundation   of   these   tradingagreements. However, tariffs are not necessarily completely abolished for all products.Free trade areas impose exclusivity among its members  since the world is not entirely a freetrade economy.WORLD’S MAJOR FREE TRADE AREAS1. North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)2. Association of Southeast Asian Nations Free Trade Area (AFTA)3. Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR)4. Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA)Here are not Free Trade Areas yet Union and Partnership Agreements5. European Union6. Trans-Pacific Partnership
7. Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership – not yet ratifiedNorth American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)Free trade between the three member nations, Canada, the US and MexicoEffective on January 1, 1994 -Although tariffs weren’t fully abolished until 2008by 2014 total trilateral merchandise trade exceeded US$1.12 trilliontrade   with   Canada   and   Mexico   supports   more   than  140,000   small   and   medium-sizebusinesses and over 3 million jobs in the USGains in Canada are reportedly even higher, with  4.7 million new jobs added since 1993.Canada is also the largest exporter of goods to the USAssociation of Southeast Asian Nations Free Trade Area (AFTA)The   original members   were  Brunei,   Indonesia,   Malaysia,   Philippines,   Singapore   andThailand.   Four   countries   have   subsequently   joined:  Vietnam,   Laos,   Myanmar   andCambodiaThe AFTA was signed in January 1992 in SingaporeThe bloc has largely  removed all export and import duties  on items traded between thenations. It   has   also   entered   into  agreements   with   a   number   of  other   nations,  including   China,eliminating tariffs on around 90% of imported goods.The AFTA nations had a combined GDP of US$2.3 trillion in 2012, and they're home to600 million people. Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR)a  Latin  American single  market, its   full  members  are Argentina, Brazil,  Paraguay   andUruguay.  Venezuela  is a full member but has been suspended since December 1, 2016.Meanwhile, Bolivia obtained its full membership on July 7, 2015. Established by the Treaty of Asunción in 1991 and Protocol of Ouro Preto in 1994 The four have a combined gross domestic product (GDP) of roughly $2.9 trillionLatin America’s second-largest trade group, the Pacific Alliance, which comprises Chile,Colombia, Mexico, and Peru, has a combined GDP of about $1.8 trillionCommon Market of Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA)The member States of COMESA are: Burundi, the Comoros, the Democratic Republic ofCongo,   Djibouti, Egypt,   Eritrea,   Ethiopia, Kenya, Libya,   Madagascar,   Malawi,Mauritius, Rwanda, Sudan, Swaziland, Seychelles, Uganda, Zambia and ZimbabweFormed in December 1994 an annual export bill in excess of $80 billion, the organization is a significant market place,
both within Africa and globally COMESA   utlimately   aims to   remove   all   barriers   to   intra-regional   trade,   starting   withpreferential tariffs and working towards a tariff-free common market and economic union.European Union (EU)is a single market, which is similar to a free trade area in that it has no tariffs, quotas ortaxes on tradeThe 28 member countries of the EU Austria, Italy, Belgium, Latvia, Bulgaria, Lithuania,Croatia, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Malta, Czech Republic, Netherlands, Denmark, Poland,Estonia,   Portugal,   Finland,  Romania,   France,  Slovakia,   Germany,   Slovenia,   Greece,Spain, Hungary, Sweden, Ireland, United KingdomThe European Union's GDP was estimated to be €14.8 trillion or $17.1 trillion (nominal) in2016In 1957, the Treaty of Rome established the European Economic Community (EEC) orCommon Market. However, it was not until 1986 that the Single European Act was signed.This treaty formed the basis of the single market as we know it, as it aimed to establish thefree-flow of trade across EU borders. By 1993 this process was largely complete.Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP)Australia,   Brunei,   Canada,   Chile,   Japan,   Malaysia,   Mexico,   New   Zealand,   Peru,Singapore and Vietnam have just signed the trade pact formerly known as the Trans-PacificPartnership In   the   absence   of   the   US,   it   has   been   renamed   the  Comprehensive   and   ProgressiveAgreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP)Signed February 04, 2016The deal covers a market of nearly 500 million people, despite the US pullout.The Transatlantic Trade and Investment PartnershipThe Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership is a deal  currently being negotiatedbetween the EU and the US. It would cover 45% of global GDP. The Center for Economic Policy Research has estimated that the deal would be worth $134billion a year for the EU and $107 billion for the US – although opponents have disputedthese figures.Free Trade IssueIn government, free trade is predominately advocated by political parties that hold right-wing economic positions, while economically left-wing political parties generally support
PROTECTIONISM.Protectionism - the theory or practice of shielding a country's domestic industries fromforeign competition by taxing imports to protect their domestic industries Economic   nationalism  or economic   patriotism  -   an   ideology   that   favors stateinterventionism in the economy, with policies that emphasize domestic control of theeconomy, labor, and capital formation, even if this requires the imposition of tariffs andother restrictions on the movement of labor, goods and capitalIII. Brief History of Global Market Integration in the 20th CenturyThe international economic integration achieved during the nineteenth century was largelyunraveled in the twentieth by two world war and the Great Depression.World War 1 brought the liberal economic order of the late 19th century to an abrupt end;1914 clearly marked a dramatic and discontinuous break in the past.Import shares fell only marginally in Britain during the war. In France, the import sharerose from 20% before the war to 36.7 % during it; again exports fell sharply.Export ratios rose in neutral economies such as in Sweden, Japan, and North America.,where grain production expanded sharply during the war years to meet Allied demand.The absence of European manufactured exports on world markets stimulated the expansionof industrial capacity, above all in the United States and Japan, but also in countries such asIndia, Australia, and Latin America.The end of war did not imply an end to protection. Different tariff acts and restrictions aremade.The Great Depression was of course a major reason for the adoption of severe protection,and not just in the periphery.Beginning in 1932, there were several signs that at least some countries were trying tomoderate, if not reverse, the increase in protectionism of the previous year or two.Post war economic reintegration was supported by several factors, both technological andpolitical.IV. The Role of International Financial Institutions in the Creation of Global EconomyInternational Financial Institutions-International   non-profit   agencies   are   one   of   the  major   sources   of   financing  likeregional development banks or banks globally.-To finance productive development projects or to promote economic developmentA. WORLD BANK-multinational financial institution established at the end of World War II (1944) to helpprovide long-term capital for the reconstruction and development of member countries.
-it provides much of the planning and financing for economic development projectsinvolving billions of dollars Purpose for the setting up of the Bank-To assist in the reconstruction and development of territories of members -To promote private foreign investment by means of guarantees or participation in loans andother investments made by private investors-To promote the long-range balanced growth of international trade and the maintenance ofequilibrium in balance of payments -To   conduct   its   operations   with   due   regard   to   the   effect   of   international   investment   onbusiness conditions in the territories of members -To assist in bringing about a smooth transition from a wartime to a peacetime economyInternational Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)-The IBRD was set up in 1945 along with the IMF to aid in rebuilding the world economy andit was owned by the governments of 151 countries and its capital is subscribed by thosegovernments-It provides funds to borrowers by borrowing funds in the world capital markets, from theproceeds of loan repayments as well as retained earnings.-At its funding, the bank’s major objective was to serve as an international financing facilityto function in reconstruction and development. -Lends money to a   government  for the purpose of  developing that country’s  economicinfrastructure such as roads and power generating facilities-Also,   funds   are   lent  only   to   members   of   the   IMF,   usually   when   private   capital   isunavailable at reasonable terms. -Generally,   bank   loans   are   made   to  cover   only   import   needs   in   foreign   convertiblecurrencies and must be repaid in those currencies at long-term rates. -The government assisted in formulating and implementing an effective and comprehensivestrategy for the development of new industrial free zones and the expansion of existingones -Lays special operational emphasis on environmental and women’s issues. International Development Association -The IDA was formed in 1960 as a part of the World Bank Group to provide financial supportto LDCs and has 137 member countries, although all members of the IBRD are free to jointhe IDA. -IDA’s funds come from subscriptions from its developed members and from the earningsof the IBRD. -Credit terms usually are extended to 40 to 50 years with no interest. -Repayment begins after a ten-year grace period and can be paid in the local currency, aslong as it is convertible. 
- Although the IDA’s resources are separate from the IBRD, it has no separate staff. Loans aremade for similar projects as those carried out by IBRD, but at easier and more favorablecredit terms. -The present emphasis seems to be on helping the masses of poor people in the developingcountries  become  more productive  and take  an active   part   in   the  development  process.Greater emphasis is being placed on  improving urban living conditions and increasingproductivity of small industries.International Finance Corporation-The IFC was established in 1956. There are 133 countries that are members of the IFC and itis legally and financially separate from the IBRD-Main responsibilities are:(i) To provide risk capital in the form of equity and long-term loans for productive privateenterprises in association with private investors and management; (ii) To encourage the development of   local  capital markets by  carrying  out standby andunderwriting arrangements; and (iii)   To   stimulate   the   international   flow   of   capital   by   providing   financial   and   technicalassistance to privately controlled finance companies. Loans are made to private firms in thedeveloping member countries and are usually for a period of seven to twelve years-The key feature of the IFC is that its  loans are made to private enterprises  and itsinvestments are made in conjunction with private business. -In addition to funds contributed by IFC, funds are also contributed to the same projectsby local and foreign investorsWhat does the World Bank do?-The World Bank is the world’s largest source of development assistance, providing nearly$30 billion in loans, annually, to its client countries. -The main focus is on helping the poorest people and the poorest countries hut for all itsclients, the Bank emphasizes the need for: investing in people, particularly through basic health and education; protecting the environment; supporting and encouraging private business development; strengthening the ability of the governments to deliver quality services efficientlyand transparently; promoting   reforms   to   create   a   stable   macroeconomic   environment   conducive   toinvestment and long-term planning;focusing on social development, inclusion, governance and Institution building as key elements of poverty reduction-The Bank is also helping countries to strengthen and sustain the fundamental conditionsthat help to attract and retain private investment. 
-They are  investing  in human  resources, infrastructure and  environmental protectionwhich enhance the attractiveness and productivity of private investmentINTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND-IMF is a cooperative institution that 182 countries have voluntarily joined because they seethe advantage of consulting with one another on this forum to maintain a stable system ofbuying and selling their currencies-Its policies and activities are guided by its Charter known as the Articles of Agreement.-IMF   lends   money   to   members   having   trouble   meeting   financial   obligations   to   othermembers, but only on the condition that they  undertake economic reforms  to eliminatethese difficulties for their own good and that of the entire membership. -Contrary to widespread perception, the IMF has  no effective authority over the domesticeconomic policies of its members-There are several major accomplishments to the credit of the International Monetary System.For example, it • sustained a rapidly increasing volume of trade and investment; • displayed flexibility in adapting to changes in international commerce; • proved to be efficient (even when there were decreasing percentages of reserves totrade); • proved to be hardy (it survived a number of pre-1971 crises, speculative and otherwise,and the down-and-up swings of several business cycles); • allowed for a growing degree or international cooperation; • established a capacity to accommodate reforms and improvements- To an extent, the fund served as an international central bank to help countries during periods oftemporary balance of payments difficulties by protecting their rates of exchange. Because of that,countries did not need to resort to exchange controls and other barriers to restrict world tradePurpose of IMF-To promote international monetary cooperation through a permanent institution that providesthe machinery for consultation and collaboration on international monetary problems-To facilitate  the expansion  and  balanced growth of   international trade  and   to contribute,thereby, to the promotion and maintenance of high levels of employment and real income andto the development  of the productive resources of all members  as  primary objectives ofeconomic policy-To promote exchange stability, to maintain orderly exchange arrangements among membersand to avoid competitive exchange depreciation-To assist in the establishment of a multilateral system of payments in  respect of currenttransactions between members and in the elimination of foreign exchange restrictions whichhamper the growth of world trade
-To give confidence to members by making the general resources of the Fund temporarilyavailable to them under adequate safeguards, thus providing them with opportunity to correctmaladjustment  in  their balance of  payments without resorting to measures  destructive tonational or international prosperity-In accordance with the above, to shorten the duration and lessen the degree of disequilibriumin the international balances of payments of members.How can IFIs help in Economic Globalization-   They   focus   on   long-term   investment   projects,   institution-building,   and   on   social,environmental, and poverty issues- strengthen economic governance- safeguard the stability and integrity of the international financial system as a global public good-  encouraging true national ownership of reforms by streamlining the conditions  attached toIMF-supported programs.- recognizes and values the role of civil society organizations- ensuring the stability of the international financial system-   helping   individual   countries   take   advantage   of   the   investment   opportunities   offered   byinternational capital markets, while reducing their vulnerability to adverse shocks or changes ininvestor sentiment.- Trade liberalization- Reducing debt burdens- Setting the stage for the 2030 development agendaV. Global CorporationsA. Definition of CorporationA corporation is an artificial being created by operation of law, having the right of successionand the powers, attributes and properties expressly authorized by law or incident to its existence(Batas Pambansa Blg. 68 The Corporation Code of The Philippines, Section 2 –  Corporationdefined).According to Investopedia, a corporation is a legal entity that is separate and distinct from itsowners. Corporations enjoy most of the rights and responsibilities that an individual possesses;that is, a corporation has the right to enter into contracts, loan and borrow money, sue and besued, hire employees, own assets and pay taxes.Based on  Entrepreneur Asia  Pacific Small   Business   Encyclopedia,  corporation  is   a  form  ofbusiness operation that declares the business as a separate, legal entity guided by a group ofofficers known as the board of directors B. The Birth of Corporations
Earliest forms of Global Corporations (Religious and Mercantile Sectors)Roman Catholic Church  as the religion of Roman Empire during the 4th  Century AD. Itsought monopoly of spiritual power against both paganism and other religious faiths in thoseterritories that came under its influence.Muscovy Company, also called Russia Company, body of English merchants trading withRussia. The company was formed in 1555 by the navigator and explorer Sebastian Cabot andvarious London merchants and was granted a monopoly of Anglo-Russian trade. It was thefirst English joint-stock company in which the capital remained regularly in use instead ofbeing repaid after every voyage.The British East India Company, founded in 1600, and The Dutch East India Company,founded   in   1602,  are   often   called  the   first   multinational  corporations.   Headquartered   inEngland and the Netherlands, respectively, these firms were set up to trade goods such ascotton and spices over a large portion of South and Southeast Asia, then called the EastIndies. The Dutch East India Company  very quickly became the wealthiest and largestmercantile organization the world had ever seen; by 1669 it had 150 merchant ships, 40warships, 50,000 employees and a private army of 10,000 soldiers, and paid dividends of 40per cent per annum.Dutch   West-Indische   Compagnie  byname   of  West   India   Company,   a   Dutch   tradingcompany, founded in 1621 mainly to carry on economic warfare against Spain and Portugalby striking at their colonies in the West Indies and South America and on the west coast ofAfrica. The Dutch West India Company was much less successful than the Dutch East IndiaCompany, its counterpart in Southeast Asia. Industrial Revolution 1700’s. From the introduction of the first viable  Steam Engine byThomas Newcomen at Dudley Castle coal mine in 1712, the invention of steam engine wascrucial   to   the   industrialization   of   modern   civilization.   For   almost   200   years   it   was   theoutstanding source of power for industry and transport systems in the West. The Civil War  in the United States began in 1861, after decades of simmering tensionsbetween northern and southern states over slavery, states’ rights and westward expansion.Growing  abolitionist   sentiment   in  the   North   after  the  1830s   and   northern   opposition  toslavery’s extension into the new western territories led many southerners to fear that theexistence of slavery in America—and thus the backbone of their economy—was in danger.World War II (1934-1935) During the war a number of major multinational corporationsengaged in the production of strategic materials, such as oil and synthetic rubber, wereaccused in congressional hearings and on the floor of Congress of having conspired with theenemy before the war. In particular, the oil and petrochemical industries were charged with
exchanging trade   secrets  in chemicals   with   the chemical  giant  I.  G.   Farben and  otherGerman firms deemed instruments of Nazi policy in return for trade secrets in oil refining.Civil and criminal actions were even brought against a number of these companies, the mostnotable   being   against  Exxon,   which   in   1929   had   signed   an   agreement   with   Farbenrecognizing its "preferred position" in chemicals in return for Farben's recognition of Exxon's"preferred position" in oil and natural gas. The two giant corporations also pledged closecooperation in their respective enterprises. Standard Oil (Exxon) – based in Irving Texas,USA sold their patent of coal hydrogenation processes to the Germans (I.G. Farben) so thatthe Germans could produce fuel from their own coal and the Germans gave them the patentshow to manufacture synthetic rubber.By   the   1930s,   the   new  Nazi   government  needed   recruited  International   BusinessMachines (IBM) for their revolutionary punched-card system. Tabulating machines madetracking lines of Jewish descent possible.  By the time the  Holocaust  began in earnest in1941, the Nazis tattooed concentration camp prisoners with identification numbers so thatadministrators  could  track  that   prisoner’s  punch  card   throughout  the   system.  IBM’smachines were perfect for this, and for tracking the train traffic coming into the concentrationcamps.   Indeed,   the   Nazis   soon   placed   tabulating   machines   made   by   IBM’s   Germansubsidiary, Dehomag, in every train depot and every concentration camp.C. The Contemporary Global CorporationA global corporation   is   generally   referred   to   as   a  multinational corporation (MNC),transnational corporation (TNC), international company.An  enterprise  that  engages   in   activities   which  add  value  (manufacturing,   extraction,services,   marketing,   etc)  in  more   than   one   country  (United   Nations   Centre   OnTransnational Corporations, 1991).MNCs  place  multiple production facilities  in  multiple countries  under the control of asingle corporate structure (Oatley, International Political Economy 5th Edition).A multinational corporation (MNC) is a company that operates in more than one country.Generally, multinational corporations consist of separate companies (called subsidiaries)in different countries, all of which answer to a central office located in the firm’s homecountry   (Riggs,   Everyday   Finance:   Economics,   Personal   Money   Management,   andEntrepreneurship)D. The Historical Events for the Global Corporations1973  Oil  Crisis  The  crisis  began  when  the  Organization  of  the  Petroleum  ExportingCountries  (OPEC),  an  alliance  of  oil-producing  Arab  nations,  cut  off  oil  supplies  to  the
United  States  in  retaliation  for  U.S.  support  of  Israel  (which  was  at  war  with  neighboringArab countries). Predictably, gas prices in the United States soared, and people had to wait inlong lines to get gas for their cars. Many U.S. citizens believed that the oil industry, whichwielded an unusual amount of power over the countries in which it operated, had engineeredthis sequence of events to drive up profits. These suspicions seemed confirmed by the factthat profits for all of the major oil companies increased sharply in 1974: Exxon’s profitsgrew 28.6 percent, Gulf’s 33 percent, and Mobil’s 23.3 percent. These profits came at thesame  time  that  the  U.S.  economy  was  experiencing  its  most  severe  crisis  since  the  GreatDepression of the 1930s.World Trade Organization (WTO) is an international organization established on January1,   1995   under   the   Marrakesh   Agreement  after   the   Uruguay   Round   (1986–94)   ofmultilateral trade negotiations. WTO’s role is to supervise and liberalize world trade. TheWTO is the successor to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which wascreated in 1947 in the expectation that it would soon be replaced by a specialized agency ofthe United Nations (UN) to be called the International Trade Organization (ITO). Althoughthe ITO never materialized, the GATT proved remarkably successful in liberalizing worldtrade   over   the   next   five   decades.   By   the   late   1980s   there   were   calls   for   a  strongermultilateral organization to monitor trade and resolve trade disputes. Seattle WTO protests of 1999, in full Seattle World Trade Organization protests of 1999,also called Battle of Seattle, a series of marches, direct actions, and protests carried out fromNovember 28 through December 3, 1999, that disrupted the World Trade Organization(WTO) Ministerial Conference in Seattle, Washington.  Comprising a broad and diffusecoalition of the  American Federation  of Labor–Congress of Industrial Organizations(AFL-CIO) and other labor unions, student groups, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),media activists, international farm and industrial workers, anarchists, and others, the SeattleWTO protests are often viewed as the inauguration of the anti-globalization movement.9/11 Attack, on the morning of September 11, 2001, 19 terrorists hijacked four planes atBoston's Logan airport. They chose planes headed for the West Coast because they would beloaded with fuel. They planned to cripple the U.S. economy by destroying three centers ofpower: Wall Street, the Pentagon, and the White House.The 9/11 attacks had both  immediate and long-term economic impacts, some of whichcontinue to this day. The attacks caused The Dow (The Dow Jones Averages are stock marketindices that represent the U.S. economy in three sectors: industry, transportation and utilities)to drop more than 600 points and the 2001 recession to deepen. It also led to the War onTerror, one of the most prominent government spending programs in U.S. historyE. The Difference between 20th Century and Contemporary Multinational CorporationsThe MNCs of the post WW2 period are different from those of earlier periods in being more
focused on manufacturing and services than on extraction of raw materials and commodities(Dicken, 2015) and more likely to be financed by a combination of foreign direct investment(FDI) and local capital rather  than  international  portfolio investments  (Gilpin   1975).   Inaddition,   contemporary   MNCs   are   the   predominant   owners   of   proprietary   technology.MNCs account for at least 50 percent of R&D spending worldwide (Keller 2009; Zeile2014). In the United States and elsewhere, most patents are awarded to MNCs (Florida2005; OECD 2008). In the last two decades of the twentieth century, competing MNCs froma growing number of economies have created geographically dispersed “value chains” totake advantage of lower R&D, production, and distribution costs made possible by lowerbarriers to trade and investment flows (Borrus and Zysman 1997; Ernst and Kim 2002;Gereffi  1996; Gereffi et  al  2005;  Sturgeon  2002;   Sturgeon  2007;   Sturgeon  and Gereffi2009).  F. Activities of Multinational CorporationsInternational   companies   are  importers   and   exporters,   typically   without   investmentoutside of their home country;Multinational   companies   have  investment   in   other   countries,   but   do   not   havecoordinated product offerings in each country.  They are more focused on adapting theirproducts and services to each individual local market.Transnational companies are more complex organizations which have invested in foreignoperations,   have   a   central   corporate   facility   but   give   decision-making,   research   anddevelop (R&D) and marketing powers to each individual foreign market. G. Tactics of Multinational CorporationsForeign Direct Investment occurs when a firm based in once country builds a new plant ora factory or purchases existing one in a second country a national corporation thus becomesan MNC by making a foreign direct investment. As consequence, the world's stock of FDI,the total amount of foreign investment in operation has grown from 692.5 billion dollars in1980 to 16.2 trillion dollars in 2008 (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development2009,251) 2,300 percent increase in less that 30 years. Types of FDI1. Horizontal Integration occurs when firms creates multiple production of facilities eachof which produces the same good or goods. Firms integrate horizontally when a costadvantage is gained by placing a number of plants under common administrative control.Intangible asset can be based on patented process or design. These assets are difficult tosell to other   firms  at a price that  accurately   reflect  their true value that's   why  firmshorizontally integrate.
2. Vertical integration  refers to instances in which firms internalize their transaction forintermediate goods. An intermediate good is an output of one production process thatserves as an input into another production process. Specific asset is an investment that isdedicated to a particular long-term economic relationship. By internalizing transactionsinvolving   specific   assets,   therefore,   vertical   integration   enables   welfare-improvinginvestments.H. Contributions of Multinational CorporationsThe possible benefits of a multinational investing in a country may include:Improving  the   balance   of   payments -   inward   investment  will   usually  help   a   country'sbalance of payments situation. The investment itself will be a direct flow of capital into thecountry   and   the   investment   is   also   likely   to   result   in   import   substitution   and   exportpromotion. Export promotion comes due to the multinational using their production facilityas a basis for exporting, while import substitution means that products previously importedmay now be bought domestically.Providing employment - FDI will usually result in employment benefits for the host countryas most employees will be locally recruited. These benefits may be relatively greater giventhat  governments  will usually  try  to attract  firms  to areas  where there is  relatively highunemployment or a good labor supply.Source of tax revenue - profits of multinationals will be subject to local taxes in most cases,which will provide a valuable source of revenue for the domestic government.Technology   transfer -   multinationals   will   bring   with   them   technology   and   productionmethods that are probably new to the host country and a lot can therefore be learnt from thesetechniques. Workers will be trained to use the new technology and production techniques anddomestic   firms   will   see   the   benefits   of   the   new   technology.   This   process   is   known   astechnology transfer.Increasing choice - if the multinational manufactures for domestic markets as well as forexport, then the local population will gain form a wider choice of goods and services and at aprice possibly lower than imported substitutes.National reputation - the presence of one multinational may improve the reputation of thehost country and other large corporations may follow suite and locate as wellI. Issues of Multinational CorporationsEnvironmental impact - multinationals will want to produce in ways that are as efficientand as cheap as possible and this may not always be the best environmental practice. Theywill often lobby governments hard to try to ensure that they can benefit from regulations
being   as   lax   as   possible   and   given  their   economic   importance  to   the   host  country,   thislobbying will often be quite effective.Uncertainty - multinational firms are increasingly 'footloose'. This means that they can moveand change at very short notice and often will. This creates uncertainty for the host country.Increased competition - the impact the local industries can be severe, because the presenceof   newly   arrived   multinationals   increases   the   competition   in   the   economy   and   becausemultinationals should be able to produce at a lower cost.Influence  and   political   pressure -  multinational  investment   can  be   very   important  to  acountry and this will often give them a disproportionate influence over government and otherorganizations in the host country. Given their economic importance, governments will oftenagree to changes that may not be beneficial for the long-term welfare of their peopleTransfer pricing - multinationals will always aim to reduce their tax liability to a minimum.One way of doing this is through transfer pricing. The aim of this is to reduce their taxliability in countries with high tax rates and increase them in the countries with low tax rates.They   can   do   this   by   transferring   components   and   part-finished   goods   between   theiroperations in  different countries at differing prices. Where   the   tax   liability is high, theytransfer the goods at a relatively high price to make the costs appear higher. This is thenrecouped in the lower tax country by transferring the goods at a relatively lower price. Thiswill reduce their overall tax bill.Low-skilled employment - the jobs created in the local environment may be low-skilledwith the multinational employing expatriate workers for the more senior and skilled roles.Health and safety - multinationals have been accused of cutting corners on health and safetyin countries where regulation and laws are not as rigorous.Export of Profits - large multinational are likely to repatriate profits back to their 'homecountry', leaving little financial benefits for the host country.Cultural and social impact - large numbers of foreign businesses can dilute local customsand   traditional   cultures.   For   example,   the   sociologist   George   Ritzer   coined   theterm McDonaldization to describe the process by which more and more sectors of Americansociety as well as of the rest of the world take on the characteristics of a fast-food restaurant,such   as   increasing   standardization   and   the   movement   away   from   traditional   businessapproaches.J. Corporations in the PhilippinesA. Universal Canning Incorporated- one of the largest and most dynamic marine industrial conglomerates in the PhilippinesUniversal Canning, Inc. has tapped new markets for canned sardines, specifically theEuropean Union, and likewise expanded its product line to include dried and frozen fish, firmlyestablishing its growing reputation as the premier seafood processing company in the countrySince its inception, UCI has gradually emerged as the most dominant player in the localcanned   sardine   industry.   It's   FAMILY’S   brand   sardines   is   regarded   as   the   fastest   growing
sardines brand in the country and has been awarded ‘Most Outstanding Sardines Brand’ bymultiple respectable agencies nationwide.-   engaged   in   deep   sea   fishing,   ice   production   and   cold   storage,   seafood   canning,   fishmealproduction, ship repair, dry dock and maintenance.The   resources   collectively   afford   an   independent   and   fully   integrated   process   ofproviding fresh fish to the market or the cannery, bringing into reality the concept of “straightfrom the sea to the can.”- Family’s brand, master sardines, Atami brand, Mikado-Vertical IntegrationZamboanga   Universal   Fishing   Corp.,   the   largest   deep-sea   fishing   company   inMindanao:  Catches the fish;Universal Shipyard:  Maintains the fishing fleet; Universal Ice Plant and Cold Storage:   Provides the means of ensuring the fish catchstays fresh before processingSouthern Philippines Fishmeal Corp:   Processes cannery waste materials (heads, tails,entrails) into fishmeal and fish oil.B.  Universal Robina Corporation-   engaged   in   a   wide   range   of   food-related   businesses,   including   the   manufacture  anddistribution of branded consumer foodsURC is the leading branded snackfoods and beverage company in the Philippines. URC– the first “Philippine Pan ASEAN Multinational” – has proven itself to be a trailblazer inmanufacturing   with   a   strong   and   loyal   consumer   base.   URC’s   products   are   already   beingexported to mainstream markets in the US, Europe, Japan, Korea the Middle East and frontiermarkets in West Africa, like Ghana and Nigeria.- built three strong regional brands over the years; “Jack ‘n Jill” for snack foods, “C2” forready to drink tea, and “Great Taste” for coffeeURC’s   key   to   success   is   to   build   very   strong   branding   through   a   robust   productinnovation   pipeline,   consumer-centric   marketing   and   world-class   manufacturing   and   supplychain management.-Vertical IntegrationIn   the  early   1970s,  they  entered   the   commodities   business  through  the   formation   ofContinental Milling Corporation, for flour milling and production. The late 1980s brought theacquisition of three sugar mills and refineries, under URC Sugar. These two businesses providedstable cash flows, and allowed for further vertical integration in the supply chain, to help URCweather any volatility in the cyclical commodities markets. In line with this strategy, the late1990s saw the entry of URC into the plastics business, through URC PackagingC. Jollibee
-largest fast food chain in the Philippines, operating a nationwide network of over 750stores.A dominant market leader in the Philippines, Jollibee enjoys the lion’s share of the localmarket that is more than all the other multinational brands combined. The company has alsoembarked  on an  aggressive  international expansion plan in   the USA,  Vietnam, Hong  Kong,Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Brunei, firmly establishing itself as a growing international QSR player-   Jollibee   Foods   Corporation’s   (“JFC”   or   the   “Company”)   core   business   is   thedevelopment, operation and franchising of its quick-service restaurant brands.The tried and tested formula of delivering great-tasting food, adherence to world classoperating standards and the universal appeal of the family values the brand represents that aredriving the expansion of Jollibee both locally and in the overseas market.VI. Trivia, Videos and Other Information2017 World Economic Forum World’s 10 Biggest Corporations1. Apple2. Alphabet 3. Microsoft4. Berkshire Hathaway5. Exxon Mobil6. Amazon7. Facebook8. Johnson and Johnson9. General Electric10. China Mobile The World’s Largest Public Companies (Forbes Global 2000, 2018)1. ICBC (Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) 2. China Construction Bank 3. JPMorgan Chase 4. Berkshire Hathaway 5. Agricultural Bank of China 6. Bank of America 7. Wells Fargo 8. Apple 9. Bank of China 10. Ping an Insurance Group
The first American Multinational Company is I.M. Singer & Co. in 1851 by Isaac MerrittSinger with New York Lawyer Edward Clark.According to the Forbes, Hong Kong with only 2,754 km²  land area is the 8th  RichestCountry in the world because of it attracts multiple MNCs due to its pro-business economicpolicies.According   to   the   Philippine   Constitution   of   1987  ARTICLE   XII   –   NATIONALECONOMY AND   PATRIMONY  Section   11  The   participation   of   foreign   investors   in   thegoverning body of any public utility enterprise shall be limited to their proportionate share in itscapital, and all the executive and managing officers of such corporation or association must becitizens of the Philippines. And the law only allows 40% foreign ownership. This economicpolicy affects the FDI in the Philippines.Investopedia Explaining Economic Integration YouTubeThe Corporation (Documentary) YouTube-What is a corporation?-The Birth of Corporation-Boundary Issues-Expansion Plan-Taking the Right SideREFERENCESAll That's Interesting. (2018, March 25). How IBM Helped The Nazis Carry Out The Holocaust. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from http://allthatsinteresting.com/ibm-nazis-ww2Amadeo, K. (n.d.). How the 9/11 Attacks Still Damage the Economy Today. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-the-9-11-attacks-still-affect-the-economy-today-3305536Anderson, K. (2018, July 06). World Trade Organization. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.britannica.com/topic/World-Trade-OrganizationBirchall, J., Morris, G., & Clark, P. (n.d.). 1 Introduction to Business Management. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from http://textbook.stpauls.br/business_organization/page_144.htmBoitnott, J., Patel, D., & Zipkin, N. (n.d.). Corporation Definition - Entrepreneur Small Business Encyclopedia. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/corporationBritannica, T. E. (2013, August 01). Muscovy Company. Retrieved July 7, 2018, from   https://www.britannica.com/topic/Muscovy-Company
Britannica, T. E. (2014, May 08). Dutch West India Company. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.britannica.com/topic/Dutch-West-India-CompanyCasey-Sawicki, K. (2017, April 21). Seattle WTO protests of 1999. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.britannica.com/event/Seattle-WTO-protests-of-1999Directorate of Distance Education Guru Jambeshwar University of Science and Technology Hisar –  Haryana. (2010). International Financial Institutions. Retrieved July 7, 2018 from http://www.ddegjust.ac.in/studymaterial/mba/fm-305.pdf.Harris, P., & Fleisher, C. S. (2017). The SAGE handbook of international corporate and public affairs. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications.History.com Staff. (2009). Civil War. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.history.com/topics/american-civil-war/american-civil-war-historyIncorporated, U. C. (n.d.). Universal Canning Incorporated - Home. Retrieved from http://www.universalcanning.com/International Monetary Fund. (2002). Globalization: A Framework for IMF Involvement. Retrieved July 7, 2018 from https://www.imf.org/external/np/exr/ib/2002/031502.htm#ii.International Monetary Fund. (2018). The IMF and the World Bank. Retrieved July 7, 2018 from http://www.imf.org/en/About/Factsheets/Sheets/2016/07/27/15/31/IMF-World-BankInternational Political Economy 5E (Oatley).pdf - PDF Drive. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.pdfdrive.net/international-political-economy-5e-oatleypdf-e23881095.htmlMyers, J. (n.d.). Here's everything you need to know about the world's free trade areas. Retrieved from https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2016/05/world-free-trade-areas-everything-you-need-to-know/(n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.www2.urc.com.ph/(n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.jollibee.com.ph/about-us/New American Nation. (n.d.). Retrieved July 8, 2018, from 
http://www.americanforeignrelations.com/E-N/Multinational-Corporations-World-war-ii.htmlRiggs, T. (2008). Everyday finance: Economics, personal money management, and entrepreneurship. Detroit: Gale Cengage Learning.Ritzer, G. (Ed.). (2007). The Blackwell Companion to globalization. Blackwell Publishing Ltd.Robson, P. (1998). The Economics of International Integration. Psychology Press.The Blackwell Companion to Globalization. (n.d.).Sahay, R. (2002). Globalization and the Role of the IMF. Retrieved July 7, 2018 from http://www.imf.org/external/country/IND/rr/2002/pdf/082802.pdfStaff, I. (2018, May 01). Corporation. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporation.aspThe Corporation Code of The Philippines, sec. 2The power behind the Industrial Revolution. (2000, June 22). Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/science-news/4750891/The-power-behind-the-Industrial-Revolution.html

Global Economy and Market Integration Explained:

hi there awesome thank you for clicking

this video because in this video i'll be

discussing to you

what global economy is but before i get

excited i would like you to get a pen

and a piece of paper because i would

like you to jot down the

concepts that i'll be sharing in this

clip and i know you're ready so let's

begin

at the end of this lesson you shall be

able to

identify and define what global economy

is the significance of market

integration as well as international

organizations

besides that you are going to understand

the concept of sanction target etc so

to begin our lesson

let's try to define what global economy

is global economy refers to the

international exchange of

goods and services that is expressed in

monetary

units of money meaning global economy is

the economic interaction

between and among communities of a

nation

and this interaction involves the

exchange of the things that we own the

things that we sell or the things that

we buy besides that it also includes

investments from multinational

corporations

labor migration and the flow of

financial capital

so meaning global economy

describes a worldwide economy or

the economy of every country in this

globe making global economy as

one great economic system

so for us to understand the interaction

that happens between nations or

countries we have to understand the

concept of market integration but what

is market integration

if you're gonna check the internet or

browse google check youtube there are a

lot of videos or

articles describing or defining

explaining what global or market

integration

however in our subject we are going to

use the definition of robson 1998 who

states that market integration is a

state of affairs or a process which

attempts to combine national economies

to create or make a larger economic

region so what is the meaning of that

market integration is all about

combining or bringing about

national or different countries into one

economy one example for that is european

union and the association of southeast

asian

nation as to why these organizations or

these countries participate or

join or be part of this international

organization

they have their different agenda or

reasons perhaps to improve their gdp or

to improve their economy for the

development

of their countries

for better

trade for better

agreement or relationship with different

countries which are all related to

economic transactions between them and

to other countries one reason as to why

national economies or countries wants to

integrate their markets into a larger

economic region is to have free trade

but what is a free trade free trade it

is an agreement between countries of

which they can trade or import and

export their products without

restrictions

example of those restrictions is

um tariffs non-tariff barriers also

includes quotas embargoes

and sanctions

okay so meaning

if that country or two countries have

free trade or part of a free trade area

they can basically sell

their products to each other without

paying any tariff but what is a tariff

when we say tariff these are taxes or

duties that has to be paid when we try

or when a country tries to

export or bring in their product to a

country let's say in the philippines

in the philippines when

countries will going to sell or

export they're going to deliver

their wine in the philippines the

philippine government will collect 53

pesos per liter of this

um company or of that wine company okay

so if you say in mayba

or tax in every liter

that is an example of a tariff while for

embargo it is a government instituted

prevention of export to a certain

country

um it's

an import ban to a specific

place or state let's say in the

philippines in 2020 because of

a news stating that

chicken in brazil were actually infected

of the cuvee

19

disease and therefore one reaction to

that from the philippine government is

to stop

or to ban the entry of this poultry

product

or products from brazil similarly in

2021

um the philippines also banned the entry

of beef and cattle products again from

brazil because there was this mad com

disease

brazil however

secretary dar lifted this ban or embargo

because

companies or poultry as well as farms in

brazil were able to present

evidences showing uh

um um

beef and cattle in the philippines were

not infected with this mad con disease

okay so that is an example of what we

call embargo so you are going to ban the

entry of a specific

um product or economic action

another concept that is non-existent in

a free trade area is what we call

economic sanction economic sanction

is a commercial or financial penalties

applied by a country or group of

countries

against a targeted country or group or

individuals

and reason for imposing economic

sanction differ or varies it's like a

case case-to-case basis for example

um

that country restricts the

export of

products coming from a specific country

for example

now that we understood the effects and

significance of free trade

to the global economy and its

relationship to market integration

now let's try to see

some of the

organizations or agreements

or international cooperations around the

world which applies

free trade or has free trade agreement

number one on the list we have the usmca

or also known as the united states

mexico and canada agreement for example

the united states can export their

agricultural

products like dairy

vegetables or poultry products to canada

they don't have to pay any tariffs or

taxed

and in response to that the united

states

will provide

new access okay for canadian companies

or canadian individuals

to

um

dairy products peanuts and sugar

containing products and of course mexico

has benefits um to this agreement as

well india and canada and united states

merondin

advantage or benefit from this agreement

and one of which is that they can also

export their product to the united

states tax free because

okay and it also helped boom the

automatic um auto manufacturing industry

in mexico

or investment from this

partner compa a partner

countries

okay besides usmca there is also another

free trade area called association of

southeast asian

nations free trade agreement

let's find out

this specific agreement was created in

1992 with the aim to eliminate trade

barriers like tariff

okay

and to create a original

market and of course to promote

cooperation between

its

member

states okay so um according to this

agreement 99 of all goods are entirely

free eb

taripa

let's say

philippines will

import or let's say the other way around

on thailand

exports

or products

in addition to usmca and after there's

also what we call mercur or the southern

common market and this agreement is

comprised of these countries

the two other free trade areas mercosur

also promotes free flow of goods and

services as well as people to each

member states

nato and besides mercur there is also

what we call

common market of eastern and southern

africa

21 member states and the main purpose of

this komesa or agreement

is

all about economic prosperity and

integration

let's find out

this common market was established to

promote regional integration through

trade and development of natural

resources for the mutual benefit of each

members ibm

um this common market

help each is cooperate magdalen in the

development of their natural resources

in which

operations

in addition to free trade areas we also

have what we call partnership agreements

and one of which is the european union

partnership nato

[Music]

however in 2016

um britain where the united kingdom

exited or umales

european union

immigration sabinillah it was reported

that

united kingdom

apart from european union

trans-pacific partnership

[Music]

with my discussion on trade agreements

and partnership italian and

so there you have it awesome thanks for

watching

i hope to see you next time take care


THE GLOBAL INTERSTATE SYSTEM

THE GLOBAL INTERSTATE SYSTEMMain Objective•To be able to interpret what is the Global Interstate System•To be able to name a few types of Interstate System•To be able to adapt some knowledge from this topicGlobal Interstate SystemIt is the whole system of human interactions. The modern world-system is structured politically as an interstate system a system of competing and allying states. Political Scientists commonly call this the international system, and it is the main focus of the field of International Relations.Globalization and the Nation- StatesGlobalization in the early years of the 21st century has not displaced the state. Max Weber, a German social theorist define state as a compulsory political organization with a centralized government that maintains a monopoly of the legitimate use of force within a certain territory. Hedley Bull, a 20th century international philosopher stated that states are independent political communities each of which possesses a government and asserts sovereignty in relation to a particular portion of the earth’s surface and a particular segment of the human populationThis means that government and constitutions come and go but states readily endure. The Nation on the other hand is an imagined political community and imagined as both inherently limited and sovereign.The State and the Economic InterdependenceThe rising momentum of global free-market capitalism in the final decades of the 20th  century, the accompanying rise in transnational enterprises, and the resulting disparities between easy flows of money and commodities across international borders and the legal barriers and logistical hurdles that keep most workers tied to their home communities are associated with globalization. Further, countries are compared to individual stocks where the states and their government are rewarded and punished similar to buying and selling shares of individual companies. States also have lost an important element of economic sovereignty and that neo-liberalism is beyond contestation. Neoliberalism and Economic SovereigntyNeoliberalism is the intensification of the influence and dominance of capital. It is the elevation of capitalism as a mode of production into an ethic, a set of political imperatives, and a cultural logic. It is a project to strengthen, restore, or, in some cases, constitute anew the power 
of economic elites. It values market exchange as an ethic capable of acting as a guide to all human action and substituting for all previous held ethical beliefs. It emphasizes the significance of contractual relations in the marketplace. It also holds that the social good will be maximized by maximizing the reach and frequency market transactions, and it seeks to bring all human action into domain of the market.Economic sovereignty on the other hand is the power or national governments to make decisions independently of those made by other governments. Globalization as an increase in the international integration of markets for goods, services, capital, and labor, is also a counterpoint of national sovereignty. In a globalized world economy, governments have no alternative but to adopt neoliberal economic policies of privatization, deregulations, and reductions in public expenditures.Economic sovereigntyThere are four different concepts of sovereignty. These include: •International Legal Sovereignty It refers to the acceptance of a given state as a member of the international community. •Westphalian Sovereignty It is based on the principle that one sovereign state should not interfere in the domestic arrangements of another.•Interdependence Sovereignty It is the capacity and willingness to control flows of people, goods, and capital into and out of the country.•Domestic Sovereignty It is the capacity of a state to choose and implement policies within the territoryEconomic and Political Integration (European Integration)European integrationEuropean integration is the process of industrial, political, legal, economic, social and cultural integration of states wholly or partially in Europe. European integration has primarily come about through the European Union and its policiesEuropean Union (EU) is an international organization comprising 28 European countries and governing common economic, social, and security policies. 
In the early 21st century EU expanded into central and eastern Europe with the following members: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Economic integrationEconomic integration can be described as a process and a means by which group of countries strives to increase their level of welfare. It is an arrangement between different regions that often includes the reduction or elimination of trade barriers, and the coordination of monetary and fiscal policies. Reducing costs for both consumers and producers and increasing trade between the countries involved in the agreement are the aims of economic integration. Seven Stages of Economic Integration1. Preferential trading area (PTA) 2. Free trade area 3. Customs union 4. Common market 5. Economic union 6. Economic and monetary union 7. Complete economic integration Preferential Trade AreasPreferential Trade Areas (PTAs) happens when there’s an agreement on reducing or eliminating tariff (tax or duty to be paid on a particular class of imports or exports) barriers on selected goods imported from other members of countries within the geographical region or areas. Agreement can either be bilateral (between two countries), or multi-lateral (several countries). Free Trade Areas (FTAs) are created when two or more countries in a region agree to reduce or eliminate barriers to trade on all goods coming from other members. The North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is an example of such a free trade area, and includes the USA, Canada, and MexicoFree Trade AgreementsFree Trade Agreements (FTAs) or Preferential Trade Agreements (PTAs) eliminate import tariffs as well as import quotas between signatory countries. These agreements can be 
limited to a few sectors or can encompass all aspects of international trade. FTAs can also include formal mechanisms to resolve trade disputes. The North American Free Trade Agreement(NAFTA) is an example of such an arrangement.Customs UnionRemoval of tariff barriers between members, together with the acceptance of a common or unified external tariff against non-members is involved in the Custom Union. Single payment or duty is made by countries exporting to customs union. Goods inside the union can move freelywith no additional tariffs. Members shared tariff revenues while a small share is retained by the country that the collects the duty. Removing internal barriers to trade and requiring participating nations to harmonize their external policy as well as building a free trade area are put up by customs union. Common MarketOne major step towards economic integration is Common Market (CM). All barriers to the mobility of people, capital and other resources within the area in question, as well as eliminating non-tariff barriers to trade, such as the regulatory treatment of The product standards are removed by CM aside from containing the provisions of a customs union. The extension of free trade from just tangible goods, to include all economic resources which means that all barriers are eliminated to allow the free movement of goods, services, capital, and labor, including removal of tariffs, and reduced non-tariff barriers is the key feature of a common market. Economic and Monetary unionThe trading bloc that has both a common market between members, and a common trade policy towards non-members, although members are free to pursue independent macro-economicpolicies is termed Economic Union. It requires coordinated monetary and fiscal policies as well as labor market, regional development, transportation, and industrial policies. In economic union the use of a common currency and a unified monetary policy is considered. The best example of Economic union is the European Union (EU). As a key stage towards complete integration, the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) involves a single economic market, a common trade policy, a single currency, and a common monetary policy. It represents a major step in the integration of EU economies. EMU involves the coordination of economic and fiscal policies, a common monetary policy and a common currency, the euro. EMU is a means to provide stabilityand for stronger, more sustainable, and inclusive growth across the euro area and the EU as a whole for the sake of improving the lives of EU citizens Complete Economic IntegrationComplete Economic Integration is the final stage of economic integration in which member states completely forego independence of both monetary and fiscal policies. States that participate in complete economic integration have no control of economic policy including economic trade rules. There is full monetary union where regulations regarding labor and capital are shared between member states and this includes a single currency. There is also a complete 
harmonization of fiscal policy which includes shared regulation of tax and benefit rates. Involvedin complete economic integration are single economic market, a common trade policy, a single currency, a common monetary policy, together with a single fiscal policy, including common tax and benefit rates or the complete harmonization of all policies, rates, and economic trade rules.Political integrationPolitical integration refers to the integration of components within political systems; the integration of political systems with economic, social, and other human systems; and the politicalprocesses by which social, economic, and political systems become integrated. Creating commonpolicy framework that creates equal conditions for the functions of the integrated parts of the economy is the aim of policy integration. Political integration is mainly based on welfare increasing effects of integrated policy making according to the Economics of European integration. It brings economic benefits by leading the recovery of effectiveness in policy making. Theories of European IntegrationNeo-functionalismThis theory focuses on the supranational institutions of the EU of which the main driving forces of integration are interest group activity at the European and national levels, political partyactivity, and the role of governments and supranational institutions. The European integration is mostly seen as an upper class- driven process- driven by national and international political and economic upper crusts. IntergovernmentalismThis theory provides a conceptual explanation of the European integration process. The main concept of the Intergovernmentalism is emphasizing on the role of national states in the European integration; in another words it argues that "European integration is driven by the interest and actions of nation states". This theory was suggested by Stanley Hoffmann.Liberal IntergovernmentalismThis a dominant political theory developed by Andrew Moravsik in1993 to explain European integration. Application of rational institutionalism to the field of European integrationis the aim of this theory. Moravcsik stated that 'state-society relations--the relationship of state to the domestic and transnational social context in which they are embedded--have a fundamental impact on state behavior inworld politics and that the 'universal condition of world politics is globalization. New InstitutionalismThis theory emphasized the importance of institutions in the process of European integration. Its three key strands are: rational choice, sociological and historical. 
Multi-level GovernanceThis is a new theory of European integration. Writers Liesbet Hooghe and Gary Marks defined MLG as dispersion of authority across multiple levels of political governance. They stated that over the last fifty years, authority and sovereignty has moved away from national governments in Europe, not just to the supranational level with the EU, but also to subnational levels such as regional assemblies and local authoritiesTransnational Activism in StatesTransnational activism can be defined as the mobilization of collective claims by actors located in more than one country and/or addressing more than one national government and/or international governmental organization or another international actor. It is a social movements and other society organizations and individuals operating across state bordersSocial Media and the StateSocial media is a computer-based technology that facilitates the sharing of ideas and information and the building of virtual networks and communities. By design, social media is internet based and offers users easy electronic communication of personal information and other content, such as videos and photos. Users engage with social media via computer, tablet or smartphone via web-based software or web application, often utilizing it for messaging. 

The interstate system is a concept used within world-systems theory to describe the system of state relationships that arose either as a concomitant process or as a consequence of the development of the capitalist world-system over the course of the "long" 16th century. The theory of the interstate system holds that all states are defined through their relationship to other states or through participation in the world economy, and that divisions between states help to divide the world into a core, periphery and semi-periphery.[1][2]

Contents
Concepts
Edit
Development of an interstate system
Edit

The Peace of Westphalia marked an important restructure of the interstate system, including the widespread recognition of the sovereignty of the United Provinces, the first global hegemon.
Immanuel Wallerstein wrote that the development of a capitalist world-economy created all of the major institutions of the modern world, including social classes, nations, households and states. These institutions also created each other, as nations, classes, and households came to be defined by their relations to the state, and were subsequently able to shape the state. Out of this structural chaos on a sub-state level, the basic elements of a state could emerge, but states could only gain conscious recognition when other states were able to define and relate to them.[3]

To Wallerstein, there were no concrete rules about what exactly constitutes an individual state beyond this, as there were so many exceptions to various indicators of statehood. Juridical sovereignty could range from total to nil, as could the state's ability to impose decisions, project power, or control the flows of capital, commodities and labor. There were also no clear rules about which group controlled the state, as various groups located inside, outside, and across the states’ frontiers could seek to increase or decrease state power in order to better profit from a world-economy.[4]

While on the level of individual states, almost nothing remained so stable as to assist with a definition of statehood, Wallerstein claimed that the "relative power continuum of stronger and weaker states has remained relatively unchanged over 400-odd years." While hegemons came and went, the basic division of the world into core and periphery has persisted. This implied to Wallerstein that while there is no universal state system, an interstate system had developed out of the sum of state actions, which existed to reinforce certain rules and preconditions of statehood. These rules included maintaining consistent relations of production, and regulating the flow of capital, commodities and labor across borders to maintain the price structures of the global market. If weak states attempt to rewrite these rules as they prefer them, strong states will typically intervene to rectify the situation.[5]

The ideology of the interstate system is sovereign equality, and while the system generally presents a set of constraints on the power of individual states, states within the system are "neither sovereign nor equal." Not only do strong states impose their will on weak states, strong states also impose limitations upon other strong states, and tend to seek strengthened international rules, since enforcing consequences for broken rules can be highly beneficial and confer comparative advantages.[6]

Relationship to nation and class
Edit
Wallerstein notes that class conflict within the context of an interstate system tends to take the form of creating institutions to affect state decisions, and that these institutions tend to be created within the boundaries of the state, and with a specific national scope. This has the effect of adding to the definiteness of state structures, and giving a national character to class conflict.[7][8]

Both the proletariat and bourgeoisie can find benefits and drawbacks to defining themselves as "world classes." For example, the bourgeoisie has an interest in defining itself as a world class to overcome national barriers to trade, but also has an interest in tying itself to various state machineries to gain comparative advantages and monopoly privileges. Likewise the proletariat has an interest in uniting on a world scale to better combat internationally mobile capital, however the mechanisms most readily available for improving local conditions exist in state-based organizations. The result is that both classes express consciousness at a level which does not reflect their economic role within a world-economy. For this reason, class conflict is often expressed in other social terms, such as through bourgeois or revolutionary nationalism.[9][8]

Role in hegemonies and liberalism
Edit
While Wallerstein said that "[o]mnipotence does not exist within the interstate system," he did note that in "rare and unstable" instances, states could aspire to a hegemony over the world system. This generally requires a combined agro-industrial, commercial, and financial edge over their rivals, which has only been achieved by the Dutch Republic (1620-1672), the United Kingdom (1815-1873), and the United States (1945-1967). Such hegemonies coincide with expansions and contractions in the world-economy, which Wallerstein explained through Kondratiev waves.[10]

Once a hegemon has achieved control over the interstate system, they assume world "responsibilities" to maintain the interstate system, restricting conflicts between entrepreneurial, bureaucratic and working class strata by exercising power in a "liberal" form. This takes the form of a greater enforcement of interstate rules to maintain liberal norms, as well as the diplomatic, military, political, ideological, and cultural power of the hegemon. This delegitimizes the efforts of other state machineries to act against the hegemonic power, but is also self-defeating, in that it promotes the spread of technological expertise to other powers, and rising wages in the hegemon tends to decrease the competitiveness of its labor power.[11]

Role in state socialist economies

World-systems theorists have used the interstate system to explain the perceived failures of the state socialist economies of the eastern bloc in abolishing commodity fetishism and other negative effects of a capitalist world-economy at the national level. This has included claims that since an interstate system is the basis of a competitive commodity economy at a system level, then no single state is capable of totally ending commodity exchange across its borders without failing to maintain state competitiveness.[12] Wallerstein believed that the fact that the eastern bloc had largely avoided disrupting the world economy was proof of the effectiveness of the interstate system in disincentivizing global class conflict.[13]

Criticism

Wallerstein's use of the interstate system to explain international relations was criticised by a number of Western Marxists and non-Marxists for what they saw as economism, or for failing to account for "the relative autonomy of the state" from economic factors, claiming that Wallerstein saw the interstate system as a mechanical consequence of capital accumulation.[12] While Wallerstein was quite clear that the interstate system followed the development of a world-economy, and state policies largely reflected internal pressures from economic actors,[14] other world-systems theorists like Christopher Chase-Dunn view the interstate system and world-economy as concomitant processes with no clear causal priority.[12][15]

Global Interstate System

hello students we are here once again

in our discussion about the contemporary

world

and i am here i am sam cairo carlillo

your teacher for the contemporary world

let's start our discussion

so for our discussion this

topic is about the global interstate

system

what does it mean by global interstate

system

when we are talking about global

interstate system

we have already discussed about the

economic globalization that is happening

to the modern world or to the

contemporary world

which is the modern world system on how

economic capital and consumption of

goods

is transferred from one state to the

other state

however here in the global interstate

system

let's try to analyze the political

globalization

so in discussing the global interstate

system

we have to discuss the political

globalization

what does it mean by political

globalization political globalization

is the amount of political cooperation

there between countries meaning to say

this

is this is the test or this

is how how countries or states or even

nations cooperate with each other

for a common good or how could they

communicate for the economy how could

they

communicate for their socialization

that's

political globalization it means about

cooperation so there

are four key attributes

for world politics to better understand

the global interstate system

we have to we have to affirm on this

four key attributes in the world

politics

first is that there are states

that are independent from each other

take note of it there are independent

with each other

since since

these states are very unique and thus

these states can stand on its own

they have the this unique

characteristics like these states can

stand because

of their stable economy the other states

can stand because they have this

raw resources which can be manipulated

by strong states

those those are independent from each

other

no one can hamper their independence

because they can stand on its own

next attribute is that these states

interact with one another through

diplomacy

the friendship like any other things

like us

human beings we call or we interact with

each other

and we call it we call ourselves as

friends

however in the world politics and thus

in the global interstate system

in that system alone in that system

alone

we could say that their friendship is

called diplomacy

they interact in a diplomatic way they

don't really

they don't get engaged with wars easily

however they interact through a

diplomatic way

diplomats this are well-versed

responsible of their own actions

that's diplomacy

next attribute is international

organization exists

to facilitate these interactions take

note

as what you've discussed as what we have

discussed we have discussed that

international organizations exist

as part of the structures of

globalization

thus the global interstate system is

also

part of the um structure of

globalization

thus here in the in the global

interstate system

international organizations exist to

facilitate their interaction

yes they have already the diplomacy that

we call it and those who facilitate the

diplomatic relations

among these states or these countries

thus

the facilitator the mediator and the

negotiator

of this one are international

organizations as we have called it

international organizations is ready

to become the bridge of one state to the

other state

that's it that's their interaction and

lastly to take note about the global

interstate system

is that the attribute that beyond

facilitating meeting among these states

these international organizations also

take lives on their own

aside from being the bridge being the

facilitator

they think they have their own lives

they have their own

character they have their own entity

they have their own persona

they can stand on its own like any other

states

right like um it is a supranational

organization that can stand on its own

like nato or the north atlantic treaty

organization

who facilitates who facilitates um

north american countries under treaties

and agreements

like their military agreements so those

were just a few attributes that we could

affirm about

full um global interstate system thus as

we discuss global interstate system

let us take note that this is part of

the structures

of globalization that this structure

mainly part because of its political

globalization

because it's the drive through towards

political

globalization now let's go over with

this one

in discussing the global interstate

system it is best to understand

what is the difference between state

versus nation

because sometimes we interchangeably use

these terms as being synonymous with

each other

however there is a big difference when

we are talking about state

or end mission when we are talking about

when we are talking about

state it's a political term okay take

note when we are talking about state

it's a political term

thus when we are also talking about it

it has

four essential elements that these

elements

could not or if one of these elements

will is not present therefore a state

cannot exist okay so this

are the four essential elements first is

the people

territory government and its sovereignty

what does it mean by people when we are

talking about people

this are your inhabitants inhabitants

living inhabitants living

within the state this are the

inhabitants

like us we are the people we are the

inhabitants of this

um state next part

is your territory what does it mean by

territory

it includes only affects

only a fixed proportion a fixed

proportion

of land over the jurisdiction of the

state so we need to say

this is our territory as a state

the philippines the archaeological um

archipelagic landscape of the

philippines is our

territory thus there is a question is

there an

is there a requirement is there a

requirement

that is needed for for

a place or a place or a specific

land to become a state even though it is

small or it's

large is there a requirement the answer

is no there is no requirement

territorial requirement as long as the

territory

can suffice or can feed the people

on its jurisdiction again

there is no specific like if it is small

it's good as long as even though it's

small

it's good as long as these territory

can suffice the needs of its people

we can grow crops we can grow food on

this one

and that's okay next stop is the

government

what is the government this is the

agency

through which the will of the state is

formulated

we need to say the will or the need of

the state

the need of the state is um translated

or formulated this is the agency like us

and who led the government the people

thus the people is the government alone

so this is the agency next one is

sovereignty sovereignty

sovereignty okay sorry sovereignty

is is the term may be defined as the

supreme

power of the state meaning to say this

is the power of the state

even though you have a people even

though you have a territory

and you have an agency which is the

government but you don't have the power

therefore you don't exist as a state

so this is the supreme power this is the

power given to a state

this is the supreme court given to a

state by whom

by the family of nations thus state

state is sovereignty comprises of two

types two types of sovereignty first is

the internal sovereignty and the second

part is external sovereignty

from the word itself internal

sovereignty meant to say

this is the power this is the power

of the state to control and to command

its people within its territory

thus the other one is external

sovereignty from the word itself

external

meaning to say this is the power of the

of the state to interact from one state

to the ano to others so that is

sovereignty

thus sovereignty also called as the

independence

independence rise when when we can stand

on our own

and that is what they call us our

sovereignty sometimes it's called

independence now another feature about

state is that

it does not exist if one element is

lacking

as i have told you if these four

elements

exist therefore state exists but if one

element does

not um on there like for example there's

no

sovereignty or even government existing

therefore

state does not exist

a good example of this one is

philippines united states great britain

this our countries or this are states

that we could call states

right okay and going back to the

sovereignty

um let's try to discuss this one later

now

let's go to nation what does it mean by

nation

comparing to state nation is a political

is an ethnic term while state is a

political term it's an ethnic term

therefore it is a shared common

characteristics

like the characteristics that you share

like you have

the same history or origin you have the

same culture

you have the same religion you have the

same language

therefore you can be called as a nation

regardless

if this characteristics exist or not

but you have one like for example you

only have one

history then therefore you can you can

be called as

a nation consists of many states

it's not it's not like like the state

alone

the state alone it's only one but nation

is consists of many states a very good

example

is american nation european nation

arab nation so example of this one

is this one the first um the first

americans these are the indians the

indians the one that we call

one little two little three little

indians this are the first americans

they are composed

of different nations a very good example

another example

is asiya nation asean

the asia we are philippines is part of a

nation because we belong to one origin

and that is one and that is we are from

the malayan race

and we belong also to um

one continent which is asia that's why

we call it as a cna

right and another term to be used

is the combination of the two and we

called it as a nation state

this is where a cultural group or a

nation

and it is also a state and maybe in

addition be

a sovereign state so so this is

this is how we define nation state

philippines is a nation state america

united states of america is a nation

state because it's a melting pot

it's a melting pot of american races

which is they have the common cultural

group

thus they also belong to they have also

a sovereign right

and it has four elements of a state

that's why it's called

the nation state so to further

understand what's the difference between

state and nation its elements and its

characteristics

i have here an example to best examine

to best examine what's the difference of

this one because it's better to

understand that the global interstate

system

must be first have labels take note

you should know what's your label

because if you don't know what your

label

therefore you cannot and you cannot

interact

in the globalization world or in the

contemporary world

so let's have it here as you can see

this is this picture is a picture

from rome rome italy can

we consider rome as a state or a nation

what do you think so let's

try to analyze the four essential

elements

of a state right

can we consider rome as a state let's

try to analyze the four

essential elements first is

this is the vatican city okay

this is commonly the vatican city can we

consider

vatican city let's try to analyze this

essential elements let's try to

people as of 2020

it has a population of 801 people

according to the latest estimates from

the un's world population population

prospects

do we have any requirements do we have

any requirement according to

international law

that there should be um there should be

there should be this amount of people

comprises for a state the answer is no

right

as long as these people can multiply

and thus we thus they can formulate

their

own government this is the people so

therefore the one at people as an

element of the state

exists next stop is territory

considering that vatican is only a city

of rome in italy

it has an area outside the boundary of

western rome

of only 0.7

square mile or 0.44 square

kilometer it would only fit a result

park in manila so again let's try to ah

let's try to go back to the definition

of the territory

is there is there a specific is there a

specific

um rules or guidelines of a specific

territory

no as long as they can suffice the needs

of its people

even though it's small it still exists

as a

territory now let's go to the government

is vatican city has a government

yes it has it is governed in an

absolute monarchy with the pope

as the head of its government

and vatican means its own euros take

note it has it

they have their own money system bring

its own stamps

and issues passports and license pay

plates so they have their own and

operates media outlets and it has

its own flag and them therefore they

exist they have their own government

so therefore it exists for the four

elements we have only

we are we have three of it now let's go

to the last part

sovereignty is vatican city has a

sovereignty

or the supreme power or the independence

let's try to look for its internal

sovereignty

yes it has internal sovereignty because

it was created in 1929 to provide

a territorial identity for the holy see

in rome they have already been

recognized

that they can exist on their own

internally

so the other sovereignty internet

now let's go to the external sovereignty

the state of vatican city is recognized

as the national territory under the

international law

so therefore vatican city has external

sovereignty because it's recognized

we're recognized by the way the

sovereignty

it is recognized by the family family of

nations therefore sovereignty here

so when the external sovereignty exists

so therefore vatican has its own

sovereignty thus vatican completed the

four essential elements of the state

therefore vatican can be considered as a

state even though

it is a city now let's try to look at

this

another example this is

taiwan taiwan

can we consider taiwan as

a state

now let's go back to the four essential

elements

first is people taiwan has

by one 2020 population is estimated

at 23 23

816 775

people at media according to the united

nations data

bigger than bigger than vatican city

therefore

they could exist territory

the main island of taiwan has an area of

35 808 square kilometers

so bigger bigger and bigger and bigger

than taiwan bigger than being in vatican

city

so therefore they could exist because

they have their own territory

no do they have the government they're

yes they have their own government

they have a multi-party democracy with a

semi-presidential

system under people's republic of

china taiwan's political system has some

of traits of

federal system like united states

so therefore they have their own

government they can exist

right now they're very much

crucial do they have their own

sovereignty

let's try to look at their internal

sovereignty

taiwan's sovereignty belongs to china

even though they have their own

government but who controls the internal

internal internal affairs is china

therefore they don't have their internal

sovereignty now let's try to do external

sovereignty

china also claims taiwan as part of its

territory

and denies that want is a sovereign

state

china is a dominant about preventing

recognition

of taiwan as a sovereign state and its

membership to the united nations system

therefore even even the um family of

nations doesn't recognize

taiwan as a sovereign state so there is

no

external sovereignty and therefore

taiwan it has no sovereignty

so going back to the rules if one

essential element of a state

does not exist therefore it is not

considered as a state

so taiwan is not a state

okay okay

in the global interstate system in the

political globalization that is

happening to the world

there are effects of globalization in

the government as we have discussed

so let's go with the effects

of the government

effects of globalization on the

government let us try to look at this

one

let's try to first discuss about about

the positive effects according to

muhammadan

in 2001 that globalization's positive

effect

is first in communication we have

the discovery of the internet and thus

remarkable it is remarkable of the

heights

of the number of users number of users

and subscribers of the internet

as we all know that communications

communications today

is on our tip of our hands

right next stop is

education education today has an easy

access of ideas and information from

best libraries around the globe

that education is like communication is

in the tip of our hands

we can now we can now create our own

classroom virtually and that is what we

call online classes as we are doing

today

so that's education

next stop is media coverage

we are now we are media are now very

powerful because

we can now we cannot grasp or we cannot

get and we are not aware with issues

not just on our communities but

for the philip for the whole philippines

or your country as a whole

or even um parts of the globe or even

from outside of the countries

we can know what are their status

regarding with their health

issues gender environment or inequality

this are the positive effects in terms

of media coverage

next up is culture we tend to

we tend to um empathetic

and we tend to be sympathetic on

others culture because like media

coverage we are become aware with uh

with each other's culture and heritage

right better understanding of the

culture

when our resources we become growing in

the

interdependence among countries as

countries need natural and

human resources and capital take note

that resources comes from different

countries therefore we become

interdependent we rely

from other countries as we go back with

the modern world system

how could we give how our raw materials

be

transformed from the periphery

semi-periphery to the core

so that's our resources now through our

investments our investments become large

and our investments doesn't go beyond

the boundaries of our countries

so there are a lot of investment in that

and thus foreign exchange and foreign

entities

are coming to our countries to invest

and this creates more

jobs more profits and more capital to

our income

to our country and those boost our

economy

and then lastly is competition the

competition becomes

global and local corporations improved

their products and services because they

compete globally

right so we improved our our simple

books

our simple our simple pens our simple

phones we tend to improvise and create

this one so that we could compete

globally with the global competition

becomes higher for our economy becomes

more active and driven towards

the betterment of each countries and

states

so those were positive effects however

gazley also identified negative effects

first is culture because it challenged

a challenge and culture through the

culture and language which is language

wipes out and reshapes the sense of

identity

of many individuals especially

the migrants we tend to change our

identity

just like our language as ghaz

identified

language as being one of the

indicators that the negative effects can

change the culture like we changed our

death

identity because of our foreign

influence like

our fashion today here in the

philippines we tend to

change our fashion because we tend to

adopt from the western fashion or even

on the korean fashion because that's

the trend now and that's the effect of

revalidation

the vanishing of one culture of a

country

next is developing countries

corporations have tendency to cause

damage to the environment and the global

pillage

instead of global village if you could

still recall

that canada dumped their garbages here

in our country

that's the sign of how how these

um how these um

countries develop countries try to bully

us they tend to they tend to pillage

our own our own countries instead of

creating global village

it widens the gap between rich

and poor yes we will know that there is

a positive effect

effects of globalization whoever the

rich becomes richer and the poor becomes

poorer

if we don't strive as a nation that's

why it widens the gap next

is religion religious values lose their

influence on people's behavior due to

the promotion

of pure secular values and the

liberation of thoughts that's why

religion as part of the culture tends to

become

um to become not visible because we tend

to adopt

with other with other liberation

thoughts

lastly morals morals people wasting a

lot of time

on internet for unnecessary purposes

unnecessary purposes due to lack of

parental guidance

a lot of criminalities have emerged in

the present times

moral stand because we advance

ourselves family we tend to

to vanish the family system

and criminalities arise when these

kids this youth are not been

um not been guided or even

been thought of what is right and wrong

next up is international politics

countries have individualistic and tries

to defend their own

national interests and globally yes we

claim

that we have interdependence among

states however

due to the negative effects of

globalization

the politics within the international

realm

or the international arena

have become high and they defend they

try to defend their

own national interests next one is

economy economy in which countries

economies collapse

due to the emergence of global

corporations that

offer cheaper products and services the

emergence of electronic trade

and online businesses because of the

advancement

of technology and thus the creation of

globalization

we tend to um we tend to um

we tend to adopt with a new world like

for example

in the united states some of the

factories

or even some of the stores

were closed because everything goes

online

everything goes online and just a tip

and just a click of your hands you

cannot order

your favorite food your clothes your

shoes

and everything online you are you're not

you will not go

to the physical store but you just but

just by the by the use of your phone you

can now

buy online and some of the corporations

cannot compete on this one like for

example

the forever 21 forever 21 as

a fashion outlets can not

tend to close their branches around the

globe because

they cannot compete with the emerging

competitions online

last stop is science the new scientific

revolutions

in many fields the genetic genetically

modified organisms or gmo

and cloning emerged we have advanced

and thus cloning cloning is making like

for example maybe sooner or later or

years from now

we could have we could have double

gunner

we have cloned we are cloned by someone

or by a scientist

okay so those were just some of the

negative effects

of globalization now

let's in the global interstate system

it's better to understand

what's the difference of

internationalism and globalism

now first what is internationalism

nations decide to cooperate with one

another

in political economic and cultural

aspects for promotion

of common good so that's international

asset

while globalism globalism

globalism is the belief

that people goods and information

ought to be able to cross national

borders

freely it is the attitude of putting the

interests of the entire world

above the interest of individual nations

so there are two types of international

lesson

there is an hegemonic internationalism

liberal internationalism revolutionary

internationalism

socialist internationalism and their

attacks of globalism

economic globalism environmental

globalism

military globalism social and cultural

globalism

so here what's the difference between

internationalism and globalism

as you can see internationalism is on

the scale of nations decide

to cooperate while globalism

is the interest of the individual

meaning to say internationalism is the

scale

of what is for the common good while

globalism

is the the skill of the individual

knee shots it's being individualistic

now let's try to discuss about the types

of

internationalism there are four types of

internationalism

let's start with hegemonic

internationalism

the dominance of one country over a

nation or state

or we call it as hegemons

or this are

this are the ruler of the world as you

can see here on the picture this is

superman

and captain america which was made

by the united states to impose to

us that they are the captain america

they are the superman

they are the superhero

that can protect us in the whole

world that's hegemonic

however now china is trying to become

the hegemonic

in terms of economy

now let's call let's call about liberal

international lesson

when we say liberal internationalism

nation states

should give some of their freedoms some

of their sovereignty

their power and establish a continuously

growing global system

working together to prevent lawlessness

in the world or to prevent what to

prevent

nazis to create again or to prevent

um world war one or world war two that's

why countries

have liberal internationalism we give

our powers and

we create we create organizations such

as

un asean and the european

union next one is

revolutionary internationalism

of which conflict in the society are due

to international factors

and alliances as you can see this is

the great adult hitler of the nazis

who initiated the world war ii

and thus lose a lot of lives he was

considered

the greatest antagonist

of the world history so

in conflict in the society are due to

international factors that for example

due to the creation of the alliances of

the nazis

the axis versus the allied powers

we created world war ii

next one is the socialist

internationalism

of which working-class nations

unite to protect themselves against

exploits

abuses and oppressions done by the

capitalist

class as you can see due to socialist

internationalism we have already created

social classes like we have the lower

class

the middle class and the upper class

however

there is uh there is there

is um working classes of which they try

to

um eradicate or erase the exploitations

and abuses committed

by the capitalist classes right

next stop dimension of

global dimensions of globalism we've

already discussed about

internationalisms internationalism now

let's go to

globalism there are also four dimensions

of

globalism first is economic global

globalism

the long-distance flows of goods

services capital

and information that accompany market

exchange

meaning to say that this economic global

globalism are now

going going easier as

we um as we as we connect

more bridges and making more bridges for

these

goods and services right next up is

environment the distant transportation

of materials in

ariel fluvial and terrestrial aspects

environmental globalism tend to

change the landscape since we created

different transportations and we could

easily go from one place to the other

place

which just we're just arriving right

it's not like before that we tend to go

to go for cebu for

a day just to ride in a boat but we

could ride

um a plane just for an hour and we are

on our destinations like cebu city

so that's the environmental globalism

now

military globalism the long distance

networks

in which force and the threat or

compromise of force is deployed

military globalism is very rampant today

because military globalism is

is very rampant because the more

military equipments the

stronger military you are the powerful

country you are that's why

the picture depicts here that china and

and and us is trying to compete

militarily

because they want to prove that they are

who they are

becomes the hegemons the most powerful

country

in the world today now lastly

is the social globalism

social and cultural globalism the

movement of

information ideas images and people who

carries these

people themselves we try to change

already the landscape

like here the k-pop that we are doing

the k-pop the original k-pop the black

paint

of course the girls generation

the dynamite and the other k-pop

organization of course who would have

thought to anyone

right so that's it

that's that's

the global interstate system we have

already discussed how political

and social um social how political

globalization have

shaped the contemporary world

so that's it everyone 

CONTEMPORARY GLOBAL GOVERNANCE

Global governance is a purposeful order that emerges from institutions, processes, norms, formal agreements, and informal mechanisms that regulate action for a common good. Global governance encompasses activity at the international, transnational, and regional levels, and refers to activities in the public and private sectors that transcend national boundaries. In this conception of global governance, cooperative action is based on rights and rules that are enforced through a combination of financial and moral incentives. In the absence of a single authoritative institution or world government structure, global governance is comprised of elements and methods from both the public and private sectors. These basic elements include agreed upon standards, evolving norms based on shared values, and directives issued and enforced by states. Methods of global governance include harmonization of laws among states, international regimes, global policy issue networks, and hybrid institutions that combine functions of state agencies and private sector organizations. The concept of global governance raises two sets of, as yet, unresolved issues. One has to do with claims of the legitimate exercise of authority, the other with democratic values. In contrast to theories of governance at local and national levels, a social contract between citizens and institutions of global governance has not been developed sufficiently to constitute a sufficient basis for legitimacy. In its current conception, global governance implies democratic governance. However, the reliance on scientific and professional bodies to set standards, rules, and procedures, on bureaucratic agencies of the state to implement policies, and on voluntary organizations to monitor compliance, none of which are based on democratic principles of representation or equal participation, raises questions about the compatibility of democratic values and the concept of global governance.

Global governance is understood as “…the way in which global affairs are managed. As there is no global government, global governance typically involves a range of actors including states, as well as regional and international organizations. However, a single organization may nominally be given the lead role on an issue, for example the World Trade Organization in world trade affairs. Thus global governance is thought to be an international process of consensus-forming which generates guidelines and agreements that affect national governments and international corporations. Examples of such consensus would include WHO policies on health issues” (WHO, 2015).

Global governance, thus, aids in working through the myriad of issues within the international system.

Thakur & Weiss (2015) further explain that “There is no government for the world. Yet, on any given day, mail is delivered across borders; people travel from one country to another via a variety of transport modes; goods and services are freighted across land, air, sea, and cyberspace; and a whole range of other cross-border activities take place in reasonable expectation of safety and security for the people, groups, firms, and governments involved. Disruptions and threats are rare…This immediately raises a puzzle: How is the world governed even in the absence of a world government in order to produce norms, codes of conduct, and regulatory, surveillance, and compliance instruments? How are values allocated quasi-authoritatively for the world, and as accepted as such, without a government to rule the world?

The answer…lies in global governance. It is the sum of laws, norms, policies, and institutions that define, constitute, and mediate relations between citizens, societies, markets, and states in the international system–the wielders and objects of the exercise of international public power.”

However, there exist certain lacunae within the system, as identified by the World Health Organization (2015), such as:

“The jurisdictional gap, between the increasing need for global governance in many areas – such as health – and the lack of an authority with the power, or jurisdiction, to take action.
The incentive gap, between the need for international cooperation and the motivation to undertake it. The incentive gap is said to be closing as globalization provides increasing impetus for countries to cooperate. However, there are concerns that, as Africa lags further behind economically, its influence on global governance processes will diminish.
The participation gap, which refers to the fact that international cooperation remains primarily the affair of governments, leaving civil society groups on the fringes of policy-making. On the other hand, globalization of communication is facilitating the development of global civil society movements.”
Global governance, then, is aimed at negotiating responses to problems that affect more than one state or region. Global governance can be considered the response to issues arising from the world´s increasing interconnectivity, and the need for and importance of a process to designate laws, rules, or regulations governing political, economic, social and cultural issues, and which are to be used on a global scale.

Global governance refers to institutions that coordinate the behavior of transnational actors, facilitate cooperation, resolve disputes, and alleviate collective action problems.[1][2][3] Global governance broadly entails making, monitoring, and enforcing rules.[4] Within global governance, a variety of types of actors – not just states – exercise power.[4] Governance is thus broader than government.[4]

Global governance began in the mid-19th century.[1] It became particularly prominent in the aftermath of World War I, and more so after the end of World War II.[1] Since World War II, the number of international organizations has increased substantially.[1] The number of actors (whether they be states, non-governmental organizations, firms, and epistemic communities) who are involved in governance relationships has also increased substantially.[1]

Various terms have been used for the dynamics of global governance, such as complex interdependence, international regimes, multilevel governance, global constitutionalism, and ordered anarchy.[5]

Contents
Definition
Edit
The term world governance is broadly used to designate all regulations intended for organization and centralization of human societies on a global scale. The Forum for a new World Governance defines world governance simply as "collective management of the planet".[6] Woodrow Wilson's League of Nations, the predecessor of the United Nations, was one of the first organizations to promote global governance.[7][8][9]

Traditionally, government has been associated with "governing", or with political authority, institutions, and, ultimately, control. Governance denotes a process through which institutions coordinate and control independent social relations, and that have the ability to enforce their decisions. However, authors like James Rosenau have also used "governance" to denote the regulation of interdependent relations in the absence of an overarching political authority, such as in the international system.[10] Some now speak of the development of "global public policy".[11]

Adil Najam, a scholar on the subject at the Pardee School of Global Studies, Boston University has defined global governance simply as "the management of global processes in the absence of global government."[12] According to Thomas G. Weiss, director of the Ralph Bunche Institute for International Studies at the Graduate Center (CUNY) and editor (2000–05) of the journal Global Governance: A Review of Multilateralism and International Organizations, "'Global governance'—which can be good, bad, or indifferent—refers to concrete cooperative problem-solving arrangements, many of which increasingly involve not only the United Nations of states but also 'other UNs,' namely international secretariats and other non-state actors."[13] In other words, global governance refers to the way in which global affairs are managed.

States are more likely to formally include civil society organizations (CSOs) in order to avoid a potential legitimacy advantage of their counterparts and to enhance domestic legitimacy if the following two conditions apply: first if they are more central to the global governance network; and second, if other states formally include CSOs as well. Thus, while government choices concerning whether to involve formally CSOs in global climate policy are obviously driven to a considerable degree by domestic factors, the authors concentrate on international network effects.[14]

The definition is flexible in scope, applying to general subjects such as global security and order or to specific documents and agreements such as the World Health Organization's Code on the Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes. The definition applies whether the participation is bilateral (e.g. an agreement to regulate usage of a river flowing in two countries), function-specific (e.g. a commodity agreement), regional (e.g. the Treaty of Tlatelolco), or global (e.g. the Non-Proliferation Treaty).[15] These "cooperative problem-solving arrangements" may be formal, taking the shape of laws or formally constituted institutions for a variety of actors (such as state authorities, intergovernmental organizations (IGOs), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), private sector entities, other civil society actors, and individuals) to manage collective affairs.[16] They may also be informal (as in the case of practices or guidelines) or ad hoc entities (as in the case of coalitions).[17]

However, a single organization may take the nominal lead on an issue, for example the World Trade Organization (WTO) in world trade affairs. Therefore, global governance is thought to be an international process of consensus-forming which generates guidelines and agreements that affect national governments and international corporations. Examples of such consensus would include WTO policies on health issues.

The WTO is needed when establishing a regulatory guide in decision-making, the Global Administrative Law is active in going hand-in-hand with WTO. They promote global principles when involving accountability, transparency, and legitimacy when making decisions involving more than one country or state. This is necessary to prevent future disputes between states.

In short, global governance may be defined as "the complex of formal and informal institutions, mechanisms, relationships, and processes between and among states, markets, citizens and organizations, both inter- and non-governmental, through which collective interests on the global plane are articulated, Duties, obligations and privileges are established, and differences are mediated through educated professionals."[18]

Titus Alexander, author of Unravelling Global Apartheid, an Overview of World Politics, has described the current institutions of global governance as a system of global apartheid, with numerous parallels with minority rule in the formal and informal structures of South Africa before 1991.[19]

Usage
Edit
While attempts of intergovernmental coordination of policy-making can be traced back to ancient times, comprehensive search for effective formats of international coordination and cooperation truly began after the end of the WWI. It was during that post-war period that some of the still existing international institutions (or their immediate predecessors) were founded. Among thinkers who made major contributions to the period discussions on the goals and forms of international governance and policy coordination were J.M. Keynes with his "The Economic Consequences of the Peace" and G. Cassel with his works on the post-war development of the global monetary system.[20]

The dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 marked the end of a long period of international history based on a policy of balance of powers. Since this historic event, the planet has entered a phase of geostrategic breakdown. The national-security model, for example, while still in place for most governments, is gradually giving way to an emerging collective conscience that extends beyond the restricted framework it represents.[21]

The post-Cold War world of the 1990s saw a new paradigm emerge based on a number of issues:

The growing idea of globalization and the subsequent weakening of nation-states points to transferring regulation to a global level instruments;
Non-State actors became intensely involved after the Cold War. This helped speed up economies and create allies for one another while integrating states after the economy crash. They used global governance as a tool to solve problems between states and to create a guide to prevent another cold war from breaking out,
An intensification of environmental concerns, which received multilateral endorsement at the Earth Summit. The Summit issues, relating to the climate and biodiversity, symbolized a new approach that was soon to be expressed conceptually by the term Global Commons;
The emergence of conflicts over standards: trade and the environment,[22] trade and property rights, trade and public health. These conflicts continued the traditional debate over the social effects of macroeconomic stabilization policies, and raised the question of arbitration among equally legitimate objectives in a compartmentalized governance system where the major areas of interdependence are each entrusted to a specialized international institution. Although often limited in scope, these conflicts are nevertheless symbolically powerful, as they raise the question of the principles and institutions of arbitration;
An increased questioning of international standards and institutions by developing countries, which, having entered the global economy, find it hard to accept that industrialized countries hold onto power and give preference to their own interests. The challenge also comes from civil society, which considers that the international governance system has become the real seat of power and which rejects both its principles and procedures. Although these two lines of criticism often have conflicting beliefs and goals, they have been known to join in order to oppose the dominance of developed countries and major institutions, as demonstrated symbolically by the failure of the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference of 1999.[23]
Technique
Edit
Global governance can be roughly divided into four stages:[24]

agenda-setting;
policymaking,
implementation and enforcement, and
evaluation, monitoring, and adjudication.
World authorities including international organizations and corporations achieve deference to their agenda through different means. Authority can derive from institutional status, expertise, moral authority, capacity, or perceived competence.[25][26] The 2030 Agenda also employs these strategies in its advocacy for strong institutions embodied by Sustainable Development Goal 16.[27][28]

Themes
Edit
In its initial phase, world governance was able to draw on themes inherited from geopolitics and the theory of international relations, such as peace, defense, geostrategy, diplomatic relations, and trade relations. But as globalization progresses and the number of interdependencies increases, the global level is also highly relevant to a far wider range of subjects. Following are a number of examples.

Environmental governance and managing the planet
Edit
"The crisis brought about by the accelerated pace and the probably irreversible character of the effect of human activities on nature requires collective answers from governments and citizens. Nature ignores political and social barriers, and the global dimension of the crisis cancels the effects of any action initiated unilaterally by state governments or sectoral institutions, however powerful they may be. Climate change, ocean and air pollution, nuclear risks and those related to genetic manipulation, the reduction and extinction of resources and biodiversity, and above all a development model that remains largely unquestioned globally are all among the various manifestations of this accelerated and probably irreversible effect.

This effect is the factor, in the framework of globalization, that most challenges a system of states competing with each other to the exclusion of all others: among the different fields of global governance, environmental management is the most wanting in urgent answers to the crisis in the form of collective actions by the whole of the human community. At the same time, these actions should help to model and strengthen the progressive building of this community."[29]

Proposals in this area have discussed the issue of how collective environmental action is possible. Many multilateral, environment-related agreements have been forged in the past 30 years, but their implementation remains difficult.[30] There is also some discussion on the possibility of setting up an international organization that would centralize all the issues related to international environmental protection, such as the proposed World Environment Organization (WEO). The United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) could play this role, but it is a small-scale organization with a limited mandate. The question has given rise to two opposite views: the European Union, especially France and Germany, along with a number of NGOs, is in favor of creating a WEO; the United Kingdom, the US, and most developing countries prefer opting for voluntary initiatives.[31]

The International Institute for Sustainable Development proposes a "reform agenda" for global environmental governance. The main argument is that there seems to exist an unspoken but powerful consensus on the essential objectives of a system of global environmental governance. These goals would require top-quality leadership, a strong environmental policy based on knowledge, effective cohesion and coordination, good management of the institutions constituting the environmental governance system, and spreading environmental concerns and actions to other areas of international policy and action.[32]

A World Environment Organization
Edit
The focus of environmental issues shifted to climate change from 1992 onwards.[33] Due to the transboundary nature of climate change, various calls have been made for a World Environment Organisation (WEO) (sometimes referred to as a Global Environment Organisation)[34] to tackle this global problem on a global scale. At present, a single worldwide governing body with the powers to develop and enforce environmental policy does not exist.[33] The idea for the creation of a WEO was discussed thirty years ago[35] but is receiving fresh attention in the light of arguably disappointing outcomes from recent, ‘environmental mega conferences’[36](e.g.Rio Summit and Earth Summit 2002).

Multiple national environmental organizations are used to help build environments from the ground up. The Nature Conservancy helps from re-growing coral reefs to finding climate change solutions. The Nature Conservancy has scientists and volunteers in over 70 countries, working to conserve the world as much as possible. While creating international policies involving limiting pollution, the stop of habitat loss and trying to promote biodiversity, they work with other countries to find solutions. They go hand in hand with other international organizations that support finding ways to better the environment. The Environmental Defense Fund works with The Nature Conservancy to find solutions to environmental crises.

Current global environmental governance
Edit
International environmental organizations do exist. The United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), created in 1972, coordinates the environmental activity of countries in the UN. UNEP and similar international environmental organizations are seen as not up to the task. They are criticized as being institutionally weak, fragmented, lacking in standing and providing non-optimal environmental protection.[37] It has been stated that the current decentralized, poorly funded and strictly intergovernmental regime for global environmental issues is sub-standard.[38] However, the creation of a WEO may threaten to undermine some of the more effective aspects of contemporary global environmental governance;[39] notably its fragmented nature, from which flexibility stems.[33] This also allows responses to be more effective and links to be forged across different domains.[33] Even though the environment and climate change are framed as global issues, Levin states that ‘it is precisely at this level that government institutions are least effective and trust most delicate’[40] while Oberthur and Gehring argue that it would offer little more than institutional restructuring for its own sake.[41]

The UN is widely involved with the development of protecting the environment from an international perspective. In 2012 at the IN Conference on Sustainable Development, they have fully committed to working towards a safer and healthier environment. This ranges from the planting of trees to the type of cars citizens can drive. Between analyzing and writing multiple solutions, they have found possibilities to strengthen and enhance synergies among global environmental conventions.

There are multiple organizations involved in creating a strong environmental impact, although the changes are not being made. Over the past couple decades there has been a decrease in trend and an increase in risks to the environment. Global Governance reforms have been taken place to try and make changed, but it is the issue of making the game plans effective.

A World Environment Organization and the World Trade Organization
Edit
Many proposals for the creation of a WEO have emerged from the trade and environment debate.[42] It has been argued that instead of creating a WEO to safeguard the environment, environmental issues should be directly incorporated into the World Trade Organization (WTO).[43] The WTO has "had success in integrating trade agreements and opening up markets because it is able to apply legal pressure to nation states and resolve disputes".[42] Greece and Germany are currently in discussion about the possibility of solar energy being used to repay some of Greece's debt after their economy crashed in 2010.[44] This exchange of resources, if it is accepted, is an example of increased international cooperation and an instance where the WTO could embrace energy trade agreements. If the future holds similar trade agreements, then an environmental branch of the WTO would surely be necessary. However critics of a WTO/WEO arrangement say that this would neither concentrate on more directly addressing underlying market failures, nor greatly improve rule-making.[38]

The creation of a new agency, whether it be linked to the WTO or not, has now been endorsed by Renato Ruggiero, the former head of the World Trade Organization (WTO), as well as by the new WTO director-designate, Supachai Panitchpakdi.[42] The debate over a global institutional framework for environmental issues will undoubtedly rumble on but at present there is little support for any one proposal.[33]

World Trade involves a wide amount of funding and taxes when being sent from one state to another. Singapore's Prime Minister created a solution that would benefit all countries which would promote economic stability and sustainable growth for all states. The Eminent Person's Group (EPG) would control Financial Global Governance to create fair and equal regulations with all involved. This governance structure would require the development of finance institutions and would involve all countries working together.

Governance of the economy and of globalization
Edit
The 2008 financial crisis may have undermined faith that laissez-faire capitalism will correct all serious financial malfunctioning on its own, as well as belief in the presumed independence of the economy from politics. It has been stated that, lacking in transparency and far from democratic, international financial institutions may be incapable of handling financial collapses. There are many who believe free-market capitalism may be incapable of forming the economic policy of a stable society, as it has been theorised that it can exacerbate inequalities.

Nonetheless, the debate on the potential failings of the system has led the academic world to seek solutions. According to Tubiana and Severino, "refocusing the doctrine of international cooperation on the concept of public goods offers the possibility . . . of breaking the deadlock in international negotiations on development, with the perception of shared interests breathing new life into an international solidarity that is running out of steam."[45]

Joseph Stiglitz argues that a number of global public goods should be produced and supplied to the populations, but are not, and that a number of global externalities should be taken into consideration, but are not. On the other hand, he contends, the international stage is often used to find solutions to completely unrelated problems under the protection of opacity and secrecy, which would be impossible in a national democratic framework.[46]

On the subject of international trade, Susan George states that ". . . in a rational world, it would be possible to construct a trading system serving the needs of people in both North and South. . . . Under such a system, crushing third world debt and the devastating structural adjustment policies applied by the World Bank and the IMF would have been unthinkable, although the system would not have abolished capitalism."[47]

Political and institutional governance
Edit
Building a responsible world governance that would make it possible to adapt the political organization of society to globalization implies establishing a democratic political legitimacy at every level: local, national, regional and global.

Obtaining this legitimacy requires rethinking and reforming, all at the same time:

the fuzzy maze of various international organizations, instituted mostly in the wake of World War II; what is needed is a system of international organizations with greater resources and a greater intervention capacity, more transparent, fairer, and more democratic;
the Westphalian system, the very nature of states along with the role they play with regard to the other institutions, and their relations to each other; states will have to share part of their sovereignty with institutions and bodies at other territorial levels, and all with have to begin a major process to deepen democracy and make their organization more responsible;
the meaning of citizen sovereignty in the different government systems and the role of citizens as political protagonists; there is a need to rethink the meaning of political representation and participation and to sow the seeds of a radical change of consciousness that will make it possible to move in the direction of a situation in which citizens, in practice, will play the leading role at every scale.
The political aspect of world governance is discussed in greater detail in the section Problems of World Governance and Principles of Governance

The political and institutional governments help protect the rights of humans and make all things equal between states. The middle balance prevents war breakouts and civil wars. They prevent the world from a global crisis and have programs to conduct research on ways to increase citizen participation in politics to become more involved. The increasing of interdependence has led to the incline of needing political and institutional governance.

Global health governance
Edit
Where governance refers to institutional arrangements between state and non-state actors, global health governance refers to such institutional arrangements that have a direct and indirect impact on health. Prior to 2002, the term "global health governance" did not exist; it emerged as a description of cross-border initiatives (structures and processes) tackling global health. Global health governance (GHG) has come to replace an earlier term "international health governance" (IHG) which worked in a more state-centric system and era.[48] There is a call for a clearer definition and “conceptual clarity” for GHG due to its multiple meanings and varied uses.[49]

Global health governance foregrounds the interconnectivity that is needed between state and non-state actors. This interconnectivity differs from former global health systems in the greater role for non-state actors whose numbers are also increasing. Non-state actors are seen as vital at a time when state actors alone cannot address the many health challenges. Global health governance gives new roles for both non-state and state actors, in areas such as agenda setting, resource mobilization and allocation, and dispute settlement.[48] These changing roles have generated new kinds of partnerships such as the global campaign against the marketing of breast milk substitutes: collaboration between UNICEF, WHO, the International Baby Food Action Network, and other like-minded non-governmental organizations (NGOs) came together to address this issue.[48] Given the diversity found within the NGO community, specific NGOs can work in collaboration with state actors on specific issues, forming a more permanent yet fluid collaboration between the two.[50]

Governance of peace, security, and conflict resolution
Edit
Armed conflicts have changed in form and intensity since the Berlin wall came down in 1989. The events of 9/11, the wars in Afghanistan and in Iraq, and repeated terrorist attacks all show that conflicts can repercuss well beyond the belligerents directly involved. The major powers and especially the United States, have used war as a means of resolving conflicts and may well continue to do so. If many in the United States believe that fundamentalist Muslim networks are likely to continue to launch attacks, in Europe nationalist movements have proved to be the most persistent terrorist threat.[51] The Global War on Terrorism arguably presents a form of emerging global governance in the sphere of security with the United States leading cooperation among the Western states, non-Western nations and international institutions. Beyer argues that participation in this form of 'hegemonic governance' is caused both by a shared identity and ideology with the US, as well as cost-benefit considerations.[52]

At the same time, civil wars continue to break out across the world, particularly in areas where civil and human rights are not respected, such as Central and Eastern Africa and the Middle East. These and other regions remain deeply entrenched in permanent crises, hampered by authoritarian regimes, many of them being supported by the United States, reducing entire swathes of the population to wretched living conditions. The wars and conflicts we are faced with have a variety of causes: economic inequality, social conflict, religious sectarianism, Western imperialism, colonial legacies, disputes over territory and over control of basic resources such as water or land. They are all illustrations of a deep-rooted crisis of world governance.

The resulting bellicose climate imbues international relations with competitive nationalism and contributes, in rich and poor countries alike, to increasing military budgets, siphoning off huge sums of public money to the benefit of the arms industry and military-oriented scientific innovation, hence fueling global insecurity. Of these enormous sums, a fraction would be enough to provide a permanent solution for the basic needs of the planet's population hence practically eliminating the causes of war and terrorism.

Andrée Michel argues that the arms race is not only proceeding with greater vigor, it is the surest means for Western countries to maintain their hegemony over countries of the South. Following the break-up of the Eastern bloc countries, she maintains, a strategy for the manipulation of the masses was set up with a permanent invention of an enemy (currently incarnated by Iraq, Iran, Libya, Syria, and North Korea) and by kindling fear and hate of others to justify perpetuating the Military–industrial complex and arms sales. The author also recalls that the "Big Five" at the UN who have the veto right are responsible for 85% of arms sales around the world.[53]

Proposals for the governance of peace, security, and conflict resolution begin by addressing prevention of the causes of conflicts, whether economic, social, religious, political, or territorial. This requires assigning more resources to improving people's living conditions—health, accommodation, food, and work—and to education, including education in the values of peace, social justice, and unity and diversity as two sides of the same coin representing the global village.

Resources for peace could be obtained by regulating, or even reducing military budgets, which have done nothing but rise in the past recent years. This process could go hand in hand with plans for global disarmament and the conversion of arms industries, applied proportionally to all countries, including the major powers. Unfortunately, the warlike climate of the last decade has served to relegate all plans for global disarmament, even in civil-society debates, and to pigeonhole them as a long-term goal or even a Utopian vision. This is definitely a setback for the cause of peace and for humankind, but it is far from being a permanent obstacle.

International institutions also have a role to play in resolving armed conflicts. Small international rapid deployment units could intervene in these with an exclusive mandate granted by a reformed and democratic United Nations system or by relevant regional authorities such as the European Union. These units could be formed specifically for each conflict, using armies from several countries as was the case when the UNIFIL was reinforced during the 2006 Lebanon War. On the other hand, no national army would be authorized to intervene unilaterally outside its territory without a UN or regional mandate.

Another issue that is worth addressing concerns the legitimate conditions for the use of force and conduct during war. Jean-Réné Bachelet offers an answer with the conceptualization of a military ethics corresponding to the need for a "principle of humanity." The author defines this principle as follows: "All human beings, whatever their race, nationality, gender, age, opinion, or religion, belong to one same humanity, and every individual has an inalienable right to respect for his life, integrity, and dignity."[54]

Governance of science, education, information, and communications
Edit
Economic globalization
Edit
Further information: Economic globalization
The World Trade Organization's (WTO) agenda of liberalizing public goods and services are related to culture, science, education, health, living organisms, information, and communication.[55] This plan has been only partially offset by the alter-globalization movement, starting with the events that took place at the 1999 Seattle meeting, and on a totally different and probably far more influential scale in the medium and long term, by the astounding explosion of collaborative practices on the Internet. However, lacking political and widespread citizen support as well as sufficient resources, civil society has so far not been able to develop and disseminate alternative plans for society as a whole on a global scale, even though plenty of proposals and initiatives have been developed, some more successful than others, to build a fairer, more responsible, and more health- and sustainability-based world in all of these areas.

Science for society
Edit
See also: Metascience and Research question
As far as science is concerned, "[r]esearch increasingly bows to the needs of financial markets, turning competence and knowledge into commodities, making employment flexible and informal, and establishing contracts based on goals and profits for the benefit of private interests in compliance with the competition principle. The directions that research has taken in the past two decades and the changes it has undergone have drastically removed it from its initial mission (producing competence and, especially societally important, knowledge, maintaining independence) with no questioning of its current and future missions. Despite the progress, or perhaps even as its consequence, humankind continues to face critical problems: poverty and hunger are yet to be vanquished, nuclear arms are proliferating, environmental disasters are on the rise, social injustice is growing, and so on.

Neoliberal commercialization of the commons favors the interests of pharmaceutical companies instead of the patients', of food-processing companies instead of the farmers' and consumers'. Public research policies have supported this process of economic profitability, where research results are increasingly judged by the financial markets. The system of systematically patenting knowledge and living organisms is thus being imposed throughout the planet through the 1994 WTO agreements on intellectual property. Research in many areas is now being directed by private companies."[56]

On the global level, "[i]nstitutions dominating a specific sector also, at every level, present the risk of reliance on technical bodies that use their own references and deliberate in an isolated environment. This process can be observed with the 'community of patents' that promotes the patenting of living organisms, as well as with authorities controlling nuclear energy. This inward-looking approach is all the more dangerous that communities of experts are, in all complex technical and legal spheres, increasingly dominated by the major economic organizations that finance research and development."[57]

On the other hand, several innovative experiments have emerged in the sphere of science, such as: conscience clauses and citizens' panels as a tool for democratizing the production system: science shops and community-based research. Politically committed scientists are also increasingly organizing at the global level.[58][additional citation(s) needed]

Values, preferences, popular philosophy and culture
Edit
Above all, each country tries to impose their values and collective preferences within international institutions such like WTO or UNESCO,[further explanation needed][citation needed] especially in the media sector. This is an opportunity to promote their soft power, for instance with the promotion of cinema.[59][additional citation(s) needed] Nevertheless, cinema or the film industry also is largely driven by market-based interests – not countries – and has, for example, been criticized for not portraying well-thought out positive visions of alternative future society (socioeconomics) or real-world problems of climate change (based on latest scientific knowledge).[60][61] Some have commented on contemporary popular fiction (mainly cinema, film and TV series), saying that "it is easier to imagine the end of the world than it is to imagine the end of capitalism"[62][63][64] or to imagine how current problems could get successfully confronted.[65]

Education and knowledge
Edit
The effect of commoditization can be seen in the serious tightening of education budgets, which affects the quality of general education as a public service. The Global Future Online report reminds us that ". . . at the half-way point towards 2015 (author's note: the deadline for the Millennium Goals), the gaps are daunting: 80 million children (44 million of them girls) are out of school, with marginalized groups (26 million disabled and 30 million conflict-affected children) continuing to be excluded. And while universal access is critical, it must be coupled with improved learning outcomes—in particular, children achieving the basic literacy, numeracy and life skills essential for poverty reduction."[66]

In addition to making the current educational system available universally, there is also a call to improve the system and adapt it to the speed of changes in a complex and unpredictable world. On this point, Edgar Morin asserts that we must "[r]ethink our way of organizing knowledge. This means breaking down the traditional barriers between disciplines and designing new ways to reconnect that which has been torn apart." The UNESCO report drawn up by Morin contains "seven principles for education of the future": detecting the error and illusion that have always parasitized the human spirit and human behavior; making knowledge relevant, i.e. a way of thinking that makes distinctions and connections; teaching the human condition; teaching terrestrial identity; facing human and scientific uncertainties and teaching strategies to deal with them; teaching understanding of the self and of others, and an ethics for humankind.[67]

Researchers have argued that there is a societal need for putting general problem solving skills at the center of education and that too little attention is being paid to real problem‐solving,[68][69] e.g. concerning media literacy, modes of learning and science education. For example, as economies may partly start to restructure to orient towards sustainability, the number of "green jobs" may increase worldwide while other jobs are being lost. Such changes may make it more beneficial, especially globally, to develop education systems – potentially including media – and to help establish ways of retraining.[70][71][72][73]

Novel global collaboration
Edit
The exponential growth of new technologies, the Internet in particular, has gone hand in hand with the development over the last decade of a global community producing and exchanging goods. This development is permanently altering the shape of the entertainment, publishing, and music and media industries, among others. It is also influencing the social behavior and work of increasing numbers of people, along with the way in which institutions, businesses, and civil society are organized.

Peer-to-peer communities, commons-based peer production and collective knowledge-building projects such as Wikipedia or free and open source software projects like GNU/Linux software have involved millions of users around the world. There are many innovative initiatives, such as alternatives to private copyright like Creative Commons, Project Drawdown – a Web 1.0 global platform that aggregates a large number of potential climate change mitigation measures,[74] cyber democracy practices, and a real possibility of developing them on the sectoral, regional, and global levels.

Mitigation of catastrophic risks from research and technology
Edit
See also: Global catastrophe scenarios, Dual-use technology, and Pandemic prevention
In a paywalled article, American scientists propose policy-based measures to reduce large risks from life sciences research – such as (global) pandemics through accident or misapplication. Risk management measures may include novel international guidelines and standards of conduct, effective oversight, improvement of US policies to influence policies globally, and identification of gaps in biosecurity policies along with potential approaches to address them.[75][76]

Global health governance
Edit
Regional views
Edit
Regional players, whether regional conglomerates such as Mercosur and the European Union, or major countries seen as key regional players such as China, the United States, and India, are taking a growing interest in world governance.[77] Examples of discussion of this issue can be found in the works of: Martina Timmermann et al., Institutionalizing Northeast Asia: Regional Steps toward Global Governance;[78] Douglas Lewis, Global Governance and the Quest for Justice - Volume I: International and Regional Organizations;[79] Olav Schram Stokke, "Examining the Consequences of International Regimes," which discusses Northern, or Arctic region building in the context of international relations;[80] Jeffery Hart and Joan Edelman Spero, "Globalization and Global Governance in the 21st Century," which discusses the push of countries such as Mexico, Brazil, India, China, Taiwan, and South Korea, "important regional players" seeking "a seat at the table of global decision-making";[81] Frank Altemöller, "International Trade: Challenges for Regional and Global Governance: A comparison between Regional Integration Models in Eastern Europe and Africa – and the role of the WTO",[82] and many others.

Africa
Edit
Always seen as a problem to be solved rather than a people or region with an opinion to express on international policy, Africans and Africa draw on a philosophical tradition of community and social solidarity that can serve as inspiration to the rest of the world and contribute to building world governance. One example is given by Sabelo J. Ndlovu-Gathseni when he reminds us of the relevance of the Ubuntu concept, which stresses the interdependence of human beings.[83]

African civil society has thus begun to draw up proposals for governance of the continent, which factor in all of the dimensions: local, African, and global. Examples include proposals by the network "Dialogues sur la gouvernance en Afrique" for "the construction of a local legitimate governance," state reform "capable of meeting the continent's development challenges," and "effective regional governance to put an end to Africa's marginalization."[84]

South America
Edit
The 21st century has seen the arrival of a new and diverse generation of left-wing governments in Latin America. This has opened the door to initiatives to launch political and governance renewal. A number of these initiatives are significant for the way they redefine the role of the state by drawing on citizen participation, and can thus serve as a model for a future world governance built first and foremost on the voice of the people. The constituent assemblies in Ecuador and Bolivia are fundamental examples of this phenomenon.

In Ecuador, social and indigenous movements were behind the discussions that began in 1990 on setting up a constituent assembly.[85] In the wake of Rafael Correa's arrival at the head of the country in November 2006, widespread popular action with the slogan "que se vayan todos" (let them all go away) succeeded in getting all the political parties of congress to accept a convocation for a referendum on setting up the assembly.

In April 2007, Rafael Correa's government organized a consultation with the people to approve setting up a constituent assembly. Once it was approved, 130 members of the assembly were elected in September, including 100 provincial members, 24 national members and 6 for migrants in Europe, Latin America and the USA. The assembly was officially established in November. Assembly members belonged to traditional political parties as well as the new social movements. In July 2008, the assembly completed the text for the new constitution and in September 2008 there was a referendum to approve it. Approval for the new text won out, with 63.9% of votes for compared to 28.1% of votes against and a 24.3% abstention rate.[86]

The new constitution establishes the rule of law on economic, social, cultural and environmental rights (ESCER). It transforms the legal model of the social state subject to the rule of law into a "constitution of guaranteed well-being" (Constitución del bienestar garantizado) inspired by the ancestral community ideology of "good living" propounded by the Quechuas of the past, as well as by 21st century socialist ideology. The constitution promotes the concept of food sovereignty by establishing a protectionist system that favors domestic production and trade. It also develops a model of public aid for education, health, infrastructures and other services.

In addition, it adds to the three traditional powers, a fourth power called the Council of Citizen Participation and Social Control, made up of former constitutional control bodies and social movements, and mandated to assess whether public policies are constitutional or not.

The new Bolivian constitution was approved on 25 January 2009 by referendum, with 61.4% votes in favor, 38.6% against and a 90.2% turnout. The proposed constitution was prepared by a constituent assembly that did not only reflect the interests of political parties and the elite, but also represented the indigenous peoples and social movements. As in Ecuador, the proclamation of a constituent assembly was demanded by the people, starting in 1990 at a gathering of indigenous peoples from the entire country, continuing with the indigenous marches in the early 2000s and then with the Program Unity Pact (Pacto de Unidad Programático) established by family farmers and indigenous people in September 2004 in Santa Cruz.[87]

The constitution recognizes the autonomy of indigenous peoples, the existence of a specific indigenous legal system, exclusive ownership of forest resources by each community and a quota of indigenous members of parliament. It grants autonomy to counties, which have the right to manage their natural resources and elect their representatives directly. The latifundio system has been outlawed, with maximum ownership of 5,000 hectares allowed per person. Access to water and sanitation are covered by the constitution as human rights that the state has to guarantee, as well as other basic services such as electricity, gas, postal services, and telecommunications that can be provided by either the state or contracting companies. The new constitution also establishes a social and community economic model made up of public, private, and social organizations, and cooperatives. It guarantees private initiative and freedom of enterprise, and assigns public organizations the task of managing natural resources and related processes as well as developing public services covered by the constitution. National and cooperative investment is favored over private and international investment.

The "unitary plurinational" state of Bolivia has 36 official indigenous languages along with Spanish. Natural resources belong to the people and are administered by the state. The form of democracy in place is no longer considered as exclusively representative and/or based on parties. Thus, "the people deliberate and exercise government via their representatives and the constituent assembly, the citizen legislative initiative and the referendum . . ."[88] and "popular representation is exercised via the political parties, citizen groups, and indigenous peoples."[89] This way, "political parties, and/or citizen groups and/or indigenous peoples can present candidates directly for the offices of president, vice-president, senator, house representative, constituent-assembly member, councilor, mayor, and municipal agent. The same conditions apply legally to all. . . ."[90]

North America
Edit
Foreign-policy proposals announced by President Barack Obama include restoring the Global Poverty Act, which aims to contribute to meeting the UN Millennium Development Goals to reduce by half the world population living on less than a dollar a day by 2015. Foreign aid is expected to double to 50 billion dollars.[91] The money will be used to help build educated and healthy communities, reduce poverty and improve the population's health.[92]

The United States and China have been working side by side to improve foreign policy and global governance. There has been a 3-year project to support the international business industry. They have discussed climate change, areas of trade, investment and finance. The Research Center for Chinese Politics and Business (RCCPB) has done the majority of international relationship meetings and has input the most solutions for development including bringing scholars from all around the world to meet and discuss action plans.

In terms of international institutions, The White House Web site advocates reform of the World Bank and the IMF, without going into any detail.[93]

Below are further points in the Obama-Biden plan for foreign policy directly related to world governance:[94]

strengthening of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty;
global de-nuclearization in several stages including stepping up cooperation with Russia to significantly reduce stocks of nuclear arms in both countries;
revision of the culture of secrecy: institution of a National Declassification Center to make declassification secure but routine, efficient, and cost-effective;
increase in global funds for AIDS, TB and malaria. Eradication of malaria-related deaths by 2015 by making medicines and mosquito nets far more widely available;
increase in aid for children and maternal health as well as access to reproductive health-care programs;
creation of a 2-billion-dollar global fund for education. Increased funds for providing access to drinking water and sanitation;
other similarly large-scale measures covering agriculture, small- and medium-sized enterprises and support for a model of international trade that fosters job creation and improves the quality of life in poor countries;
in terms of energy and global warming, Obama advocates a) an 80% reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 b) investing 150 billion dollars in alternative energies over the next 10 years and c) creating a Global Energy Forum capable of initiating a new generation of climate protocols.
Asia
Edit
The growing interest in world governance in Asia represents an alternative approach to official messages, dominated by states' nationalist visions. An initiative to develop proposals for world governance took place in Shanghai in 2006, attended by young people from every continent. The initiative produced ideas and projects that can be classified as two types: the first and more traditional type, covering the creation of a number of new institutions such as an International Emissions Organization,[95] and a second more innovative type based on organizing network-based systems. For example, a system of cooperative control on a worldwide level among states[96] and self-organization of civil society into networks using new technologies, a process that should serve to set up a Global Calling-for-Help Center or a new model based on citizens who communicate freely, share information, hold discussions, and seek consensus-based solutions.[97] They would use the Internet and the media, working within several types of organizations: universities, NGOs, local volunteers and civil-society groups.[98]

Given the demographic importance of the continent, the development of discussion on governance and practices in Asia at the regional level, as well as global-level proposals, will be decisive in the years ahead in the strengthening of global dialog among all sorts of stakeholders, a dialog that should produce a fairer world order.(See Kishore Mahbubani).

Europe
Edit
According to Michel Rocard, Europe does not have a shared vision, but a collective history that allows Europeans to opt for projects for gradual political construction such as the European Union. Drawing on this observation, Rocard conceives of a European perspective that supports the development of three strategies for constructing world governance: reforming the UN, drawing up international treaties to serve as the main source of global regulations, and "the progressive penetration of the international scene by justice."[99]

Europe does not have the same views as other nations, however according to the Ambassador of Vienna, Walther Lichem, "Today, every citizen can contribute to the recognition of the dignity of the other and the related human rights. The impact of citizen-focused human rights programs is visible in human rights cities in all regions of the world. The citizen creating conditions of societal cohesion also essentially contributes to peace and security." Overall, having the same human rights goal is the ultimate end game in all nations. Europe's main focus now through global governance is to keep the trend of peacekeeping. Involved in the peacekeeping is Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Germany, Austria, Belgium and Norway. They have worked with The International Collaboration Research Network to establish rules and norms to follow by.

Rocard considers that there are a number of "great questions of the present days" including recognition by all nations of the International Criminal Court, the option of an international police force authorized to arrest international criminals, and the institution of judicial procedures to deal with tax havens, massively polluting activities, and states supporting terrorist activities. He also outlines "new problems" that should foster debate in the years to come on questions such as a project for a Declaration of Interdependence, how to re-equilibrate world trade and WTO activities, and how to create world regulations for managing collective goods (air, drinking water, oil, etc.) and services (education, health, etc.).[100]

Academic tool or discipline
Edit
In the light of the unclear meaning of the term "global governance" as a concept in international politics,[101] some authors have proposed defining it not in substantive, but in disciplinary and methodological terms. For these authors, global governance is better understood as an analytical concept or optic that provides a specific perspective on world politics different from that of conventional international relations[102] theory. Thomas G. Weiss and Rorden Wilkinson have even argued that global governance has the capacity to overcome some of the fragmentation of international relations as a discipline[103] particularly when understood as a set of questions about the governance of world orders.[104] Other authors conceptualised global governance as a field of practice in which diverse stakeholders, such as public, private, and supra-governmental actors can compete for influence about issues that are not bound to national boundaries.[105] This conceptualisation allows to better understand the principles of exclusions of specific stakeholders from the negotiation field as some actors lack the economic, social, cultural and symbolic resources required to gain enough influence.[106]

Some universities, including those offering courses in international relations, have begun to establish degree programmes in global governance.

Issues
Edit
Expansion of normative mechanisms and globalization of institutions
Edit
One effect of globalization is the increasing regulation of businesses in the global marketplace. Jan Aart Scholte asserts, however, that these changes are inadequate to meet the needs: "Along with the general intensified globalization of social relations in contemporary history has come an unprecedented expansion of regulatory apparatuses that cover planetary jurisdictions and constituencies. On the whole, however, this global governance remains weak relative to pressing current needs for global public policy. Shortfalls in moral standing, legal foundations, material delivery, democratic credentials and charismatic leadership have together generated large legitimacy deficits in existing global regimes."[107]

Proposals and initiatives have been developed by various sources to set up networks and institutions operating on a global scale: political parties,[108] unions,[109] regional authorities,[110] and members of parliament in sovereign states.[111]

Formulation and objectives
Edit
One of the conditions for building a world democratic governance should be the development of platforms for citizen dialogue on the legal formulation of world governance and the harmonization of objectives.

This legal formulation could take the form of a Global Constitution. According to Pierre Calame and Gustavo Marin, "[a] Global Constitution resulting from a process for the institution of a global community will act as the common reference for establishing the order of rights and duties applicable to United Nations agencies and to the other multilateral institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and the World Trade Organization."[112] As for formulating objectives, the necessary but insufficient ambition of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, which aim to safeguard humankind and the planet, and the huge difficulties in implementing them, illustrates the inadequacy of institutional initiatives that do not have popular support for having failed to invite citizens to take part in the elaboration process.

Furthermore, the Global Constitution "must clearly express a limited number of overall objectives that are to be the basis of global governance and are to guide the common action of the U.N. agencies and the multilateral institutions, where the specific role of each of these is subordinated to the pursuit of these common objectives."[112]

Calame proposes the following objectives:

instituting the conditions for sustainable development
reducing inequalities
establishing lasting peace while respecting diversity.[113]
Reforming international institutions
Edit
Is the UN capable of taking on the heavy responsibility of managing the planet's serious problems? More specifically, can the UN reform itself in such a way as to be able to meet this challenge? At a time when the financial crisis of 2008 is raising the same questions posed by the climate disasters of previous years regarding the unpredictable consequences of disastrous human management, can international financial institutions be reformed in such a way as to go back to their original task, which was to provide financial help to countries in need?

Lack of political will and citizen involvement at the international level has also brought about the submission of international institutions to the "neoliberal" agenda, particularly financial institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization (WTO).[114] Pierre Calame gives an account of this development,[57] while Joseph E. Stiglitz points out that the need for international institutions like the IMF, the World Bank, and the WTO has never been so great, but people's trust in them has never been so low.[115]

One of the key aspects of the United Nations reform is the problem of the representativeness of the General Assembly. The Assembly operates on the principle of "one state, one vote," so that states of hugely varying sizes have the same effect on the vote, which distorts representativeness and results in a major loss of credibility. Accordingly, "the General Assembly has lost any real capacity to influence. This means that the mechanisms for action and consultation organized by rich countries have the leading role."[57]

Gustave Massiah advocates defining and implementing a radical reform of the UN. The author proposes building new foundations that can provide the basis for global democracy and the creation of a Global Social Contract, rooted in the respect and protection of civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights, as well as in the recognition of the strategic role of international law.[116]

Global goals
Edit
This section is an excerpt from 2020s § Global goals and issues.[edit]
Development in global goals and issues – including goals or progress related to the largest causes of human death – during the decade, according to reports that systematically track, quantify or review associated progress.

As of 2022
Progress of the Paris Agreement or global climate change mitigation goals
The United in Science 2022 report by the WMO, summarizes latest climate science-related updates and assesses recent climate change mitigation progress as "going in the wrong direction".[117][118]
A report by the World Resources Institute assesses the state of nationally determined contributions (NDCs), finding they need to be strengthened by about six times for alignment with what may be enough to reach the Paris Agreement's 1.5 °C goal.[119][120] The UNFCCC's NDC synthesis report suggests that based on the latest NDCs the carbon budget for a 50% likelihood of limiting warming to 1.5 °C would be used up by around 2032.[121][122][123][124]
A Lancet Countdown report publishes data of indicators that show "countries and companies continue to make choices that threaten the health and survival of people in every part of the world". It calls for an immediate, health-centred response at a critical juncture of recovery from crises.[121][125]
The WMO reports atmospheric levels of the three main greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, all reached record highs, with methane concentrations showing a record jump in 2021. The WMO Secretary-General concludes that "we are heading in the wrong direction", with time "running out".[126][127]
Climate Action Tracker systematically assesses the state of progress of actions of climate goals in an overview, finding that none of the indicators is on track to reach their 2030 targets, with insufficient speed for six indicators, and well below the required pace for 21, five heading in the wrong direction, and data being insufficient to evaluate the remaining eight.[128][129][130]
The UNEP's Emissions Gap Report finds that no credible "pathway" to the 1.5 °C climate goal is in place.[131][132][133][134][135] Similarly, a UNFCCC synthesis about "long-term low-emission development strategies" warns that many net-zero targets "remain uncertain and postpone into the future critical action that needs to take place now".[136][137]
Deforestation mitigation goals
An annual report by the World Resources Institute shows that tropical regions lost 9.3 million acres of primary old-growth forest in 2021, a decline of 11% from 2020, and about equal to both 2018 and 2019.[138][139]
The Forest Declaration Assessment finds that a drop of only 6.3% in deforestation in 2021 is "leaving the world off track from its goals of ending forest loss by 2030".[140][141][142][143]
Public health goals
The UN's "The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World" report finds that the number of people affected by hunger globally rose by 46 million to 828 million in 2021. 3.1 billion people could not afford a healthy diet in 2020, an increase of 112 million from 2019.[144][145]
A WHO report indicates collective progress toward a 15% relative reduction in population levels of physical inactivity by 2030 is insufficient and that about 500 million people will develop heart disease, obesity, diabetes or other diseases if they don't increase their physical activity.[146][147]
Global budgets and government spending
The OECD and IEA report that global public subsidies for fossil fuels almost doubled from 2020 to $700bn in 2021.[148][149]
General well-being
The Club of Rome, authors of the 1972 The Limits to Growth, and research institutes like the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research publish the "Earth for All" report, concluding that to increase the wellbeing of humanity, addressing rising inequality is key to mitigating related issues such as climate change with many current policies disproportionately burdening lower income groups.[150][151][152][153][154]
Sustainable Development Goals (other than the above or in general)
The only UN report that monitors global progress on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development indicates the agenda is in "grave danger".[155][156]
GDP-alternative progress or sustainable development indices
Human Development Index (HDI): the Human Development Report 2021-22 concludes that for the first time, the global HDI value declined for a second year, with living standards declining in 90% of countries.

A WORLD OF REGIONS

A World of Regions   | LEARNING OBJECTIVES  At the end of this lesson, students are expected to: I. define the term “Global South”:  2. differentiate the Global South from the Third World: and  3. analyze how a new conception of global relations emerged from the , experiences of Latin American countries.   Lesson 1. GLOBAL DIVIDES: THE NORTH AND THE SOUTH   While globalization is a phenomenon, regionalism is also seen as political and economic phenomenon. The world consists of different regions which refers to group of countries situated in same geographic location or amalgamate one another to oversee flows arid policy choices. Countries on these regions respond economically and politically to globalization thereby forming regional associations for common purposes like military defense and economic security.  Regionalism is a political process characterized PY | economic policy cooperation and coordination among countries (Claudio, 2018). Whereas regionalization is the concentration of economic flow within region thereby binding together the region’s economy. Since regionalism is a process, regions are not given or naturally created. They are product of political and economic actors, and even social movements. Regions group and divide due to common traits and vested interests. The world is divided according to socio-economic and political aspects.  North-South Divide  The North-South Divide or Rich-Poor Divide is the socio-economic and political division between the wealthy developed countries known as “the North,” and the poorer developing countries or “the South.” Although most of the countries under “the North” are located in the Northern Hemisphere, the divide is purely not based on geographic location. Some countries located in the same hemisphere may be qualified for “developed” status. In effect may deemed part of “the South.” This divide is recently known as development gap which puts greater emphasis on the gap between the economically rich and poor countries.  The Global North mostly encompasses the West and the First World, along with many of the Second World. It is the home of all the G8 (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom, United States and European Union), Global North also includes the outermost regions of the European Union, Key Terms North-South Divide Regionalism Regionalization Global North Global South Third World First World Second World 
Australia, New Zealand, and developed members of Asia (the Four Asian Tigers - Hongkong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea). The North, with one quarter of the world population, controls four-fifths of the income earned anywhere in the world. It owned 90% of the manufacturing industries which are also located in the countries belonging to the North,  The Global South refers to regions of Latin America, Asia, Africa, and Oceania. It includes the countries belonging to the Third World and Periphery. These are regions outside Europe and North America. With three-fourth of the world populations, only has access to one-fifth of the world income. Hence, countries that have low-income and often politically or culturally marginalized. “The use of the phrase Global South marks a shift from a central focus on development or cultural difference toward an emphasis on geopolitical relations of power,” (Dados, 2012).  The Brandt Line proposed by Willy Brandt in 1980s attempted to show growing income inequality between countries. Above the line are the rich countries, whereas below the line are the poor countries. However, this theory is no longer considered as valid since in today’s context some of the world’s strongest economies lie below the Brandt line.      
 
 
Global South vs The Third World   The emergence of the term Global South is in part to aid countries in the Southern Hemisphere to work in collaboration on political, economic, social, environmental, cultural, and technical issues. This is called a South-South Cooperation (SSC), “g political and economical term referring to the long term goal of pursuing world economic changes that mutually benefit countries in the Global South and lead to greater solidarity among the disadvantaged in the world system” (Gray, 2016).  Global South was first used in 1969 in a contemporary political sense and continued to gain appeal throughout the second half of-the 20™ century.   It was a French demographer, anthropologist and economic historian Alfred Sauvy (1898-1990) who coined the term “the Third World” in 1952, comparing it with Third Estate, a concept that emerged during the French Revolution which refers to the French population. The term was accepted because it clearly differentiated the poor countries from the First World where countries are wealthy, and to Second World (Communist states) though not so wealthy but characterized by greater order, higher incomes, and longer expectancies (Butler, 2007).  There growth and develop of the developing countries in the 1970’s was slowing. Developed countries were becoming dependent on the Third World for energy due to the decline of US oil reserves. These likely increased the economic power of the. Third World. It was at this time that the term North and South were firstly widely used in lieu of the long standing geographical and cultural partition of the East and West. The Global South was merged to the Third World in order to avoid the stigma brought about by the form “Third World” as being very poor and thus created a new world order (Butler 2007).  To explain further, Third World countries are experiencing deep poverty, inequality, and underdevelopment. They are the countries at the periphery that produce mainly agrarian and mineral raw materials for industrialized states. In deeper sense, the developing countries originally belong to the Global South still has a chance to become a developed country.   Global Relations in Latin America  Latin America, like Africa, has small populations but endowed with rich natural resources. Because of this, this region is target for grand-scale pillage for capital accumulation by Europe and the United States. Countries in Latin America wert under the control of either Spain or Portugal during the Colonial Era. During the 19" century, the world capitalist system exploited the peonized peasants. The tillers, laborers, and uneducated were subject to brutality by big agrarian landowners. The natural resources like mines were exploited by the developed countries.   
The emigration of peasants from the countryside in the 20th century resulted to “modernization poverty” replacing rural poverty in Latin America. A settlement of jerry-built shacks or favelas emerged in the cities. A lot of people were now living in the urban areas alongside with the change of politics imposing fascist dictatorship. Certain rights were abolished like right to vote. Specialized police services were established giving extra-legal authority to arrest and torture people who go against the government. The brutal super—exploitation in Latin America are worse compared to other regions in the world. Until now, some countries in the region are still suffering and recovering from the brutal treatment as the result of dictatorships. The situation of the Philippines during and after the colonial era was much better compared to the experiences of Latin America.   Even before the current globalization trends appear in Latin America, they were actually experiencing the wide-raging globalization which resulted to exploitation and abuse. Danilo Antén (1998) in his article, “Different waves of globalization in Latin America”. The first wave of globalization was the military wave that happened around 15 to 16" centuries. Extracontinental military invasion of the Americas was immediately felt. There were political and cultural annihilation of the indigenous people. The first wave was extremely brutal.   The second wave of globalization was the economic wave. The Spanish and Portuguese colonies were well established this time in the 90" century. Latin America was the basic source of raw materials by the European countries. During this time, the globalization development was mainly related to the requirements of the European industrial revolution. Natural resources in this period were exploited and workers were abused. However, infectious diseases were reduced, communication, and transportation were developed.   Cultural wave was the third globalization wave. Due to the nature of technological changes, globalization affects the cultural sphere of Latin America. Computers and telecommunications were now made available and air travel has become widespread. The flow of merchandise and trade is easier and accomplishing lots of things. Women has become increasingly important in the workplace. A lot of changes were happening. Communication was becoming better. People within the region can now communicate with each other and to other regions of the world. But new disease was introduced like AIDS or HIV.   Though the impact of the third wave was already felt during the 20" century, the impact of the second wave was still felt and very much alive. Both waves in the last decade was simultaneously experienced affecting many countries around the world. The better effects brought by the third wave were often outweighed by its negative impacts. A lot of raw materials were produced and exported outside the region resulting to higher income to the detriment of the environment. Native trees   
Recommended for you

Document continues below
16
Market integration
Market integration
The Contemporary World
100% (50)
1
UTS Material SELF essay
UTS Material SELF essay
Bachelor of hotel and restaurant management
94% (32)
1
Are the Global North and Global South dependent on one another?".
Are the Global North and Global South dependent on one another?".
Contemporary World
100% (40)
or crops were replaced by other plants highly demanded by the importing countries resulting to soil erosion. Increased consumption of sea products promoted €XPansion of aquaculture resulting to reduction the water quality.   Despite of these effects, the national cultures of Latin America still exist These are important assets to regional societies. However, many individuals and communities have no political control over their common destinies. The weakening of the state capacity and the increase in access of information might be a source of opportunity for the individuals and communities. The tools offered by this new globalization, according to Anton (1998), might paved the way for planetary survival and social renewal.                   
Lesson 2. ASIAN REGIONALISM  LEARNING OBJECTIVES:  At the end of this lesson, students are expected to:  1. differentiate between regionalization and globalization;  2. identify the factors leading to a greater integration of the Asian region; and  3. analyze how different Asian states confront the challenges of globalization and regionalization.   Groups, associations, institutions, societies, communities and governments form organizations or networks in regions. The linkages and communications have made the people more aware of the world around them. Globalization has made various citizens cognizant of specific areas, particularly on territories or continents where they live. People are able to identify themselves with regions they belong to.   Regionalization vs Globalization  As discussed previously, regionalization is the concentration of economic flow within region thereby binding together the region’s economy. It is a process of dividing areas into smaller segments called regions. While s promotes economic integrations across state borders around the world allowing many companies to trade internationally that permit free market. Whereas the former, may not allow corporations outside its region to trade and more likely create monopolies within the region. Regionalization and globalization are key defining features in contemporary world politics. They are not actually a complete new processes. Ever since men started to travel around the globe by boat or by land, globalization had started. As previously said, the exact meaning of globalization, and defining it is a controversial risk. It is always understood as the increased flow of goods, services, capital, people, and information across borders (Jacoby, 2010). Whether people share same culture, history or commerce, the most basic sense of region is a group of countries in the same geographic location (Mansfield, 1999). The countries in this region decided to integrate and interact socially and economically leading to regionalization (Hurrell, 2007).   Integration of Asian Region  Key Terms Regionalism Regionalization Globalization Regional Integration Economic Integration Political Integration Single Market Processing Trade 
The process by which two or more neighboring nation-states agree to cooperate and work closely together to achieve peace, stability, and wealth is regional integration. It is overcoming barriers among neighboring countries jointly managing shared resources and assets for common good. The European Union supports regional integration to achieve prosperity, peace, and security.  Cooperation among countries within the region usually start with economic integration. It is the process by which different countries come to agreement to remove trade barriers (e.g., tariffs, quotas and border restrictions) between them. Eventually political integration follows as cooperating states have become completely integrated into a single market since there is a need for common policies in social aspect (e.g., education, health care, employment benefits, and pensions) and political institutions. Single market is the midpoint between political and economic integration the cooperating states become so integrated that all barriers are removed. It will come to a point that the countries involved are totally integrated that they will adopt a common currency with a monetary policy regulated by a single central bank, even share the same foreign policies and merge their armies (McCormick, 1999). The European Union is the best example of regional integration. They are almost nearing to the point of total integration. They have their common currency, the Euro. Who knows in the near future, EU will combine politically and maximum scale of total integration.   It took time for Asia to integrate economically due to, first, its unbalanced economic growth. Some countries in Asia have medium-high income (e.g., Singapore and South Korea), others are of medium-low income (e.g., Philippines and Indonesia), and low income earners (e.g., Pakistan and Cambodia). Second reason for the delay is diversified cultures, religions and customs among the people. Asia has a long history and brilliant ancient civilization but impedes the progress of integration. Issues and problems of security is the third cause of delay. The issues on terrorism and boundary disputes and other problems brought some negative consequences to the progress of Asia’s economic integration (Kang, 2009).   The integration of East and South Asia is the product of global economic integration. According to Sally (2010), East-Asian integration is the strongest in trade in transport and machinery which the heart of these products is processing trade (also known as fragmented or network trade). This kind of trade is trade in parts or components where different parts of the production process are located in different countries. The production chains ended in a labor-intensive assembly operations happened mostly in China since 1990s before export to-final consumer markets in the West. Accordingly, South Asia was seen to increase in manufactured exports 
 The ASEAN or South East Asian Nations was established on August 8, 1967 in Bangkok, Thailand. Up today, there are 10 member-states of which the Philippines is one of its founding members. The gist of the aims and purposes of ASEAN is to accelerate the economic growth, promote on matters of socio-cultural interests, and maintain regional peace and prosperity. In 2007, These objectives are clearly manifested in its three pillars: ASEAN Political-Security Community; ASEAN Economic Community; and ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community. ASEAN has convened to form the ASEAN Community in 2015, of which its four main goals are: Single Market and Production Base; Highly Competitive Economic Region; Equitable Economic Development; and Integration into the Global Economy (Coloso, 2015).   In her article, Austria (2004), discussed three factors that drive economic integration of the ASEAN: Market-led process through the international production sharing of MNCs. The unilateral and multilateral reduction of barriers to trade and invest, rapid development of transportation, and information technology made it possible to establish and set up businesses in Asian Countries. TNCs or MNCs geared their businesses to developing countries where labor-intensive segment of the production chain is located and wages are low; Institution-led process through the free trade, investment agreements, and functional cooperation. Barriers to intraregional trade were reduced due to ASEAN Free Trade Act (AFTA) which attracted the FDI-driven production networks. AFTA created an environment for MNCs freely choose their cross-border bases and conduct their economic activities, thereby allowing the exploitation of factor price within the region Private-led process is the Sub-regional Economic Zones (SREZs) aim to enhance the attractiveness of investment in the continuous areas by 
combining their advantages and exploit economic complementaries. SREZs are private sector-led with the role of national and local governments limited only to facilitating through policy framework and investment promotion. These zones are usually located within national borders of the country with their aims to increase trade and investment, create job, and establish effective administration.  According to former Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) Assistant Secretary Ceferino Rodolfo, “Asia is the most dynamic and fastest-growing region in the world; and in Asia, the most dynamic is Southeast Asia; and in Southeast Asia, the fastest growing sub-region is the Philippine”. The Philippines has current trade agreements with ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations), WTO (World Trade Organization) and APEC (Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation) and exports  to countries with which that has signed Free Trade Agreements (FTA)..It enacted Republic Act No. 10641 in 2014 entry of foreign banks, is allowed and legalized removing specific limits on the number of foreign bank, reopening the three modes of entry, and allowing up to 100 percent foreign ownership in an existing bank and a new banking subsidiary. 
  Challenges on Regionalization and Globalization in Asia  Though increasing trade and financial sector integration offers enormous benefits however, this poses, new challenges (Camdessus, 1997). One of the challenges perhaps is in trade. The openness of Asian economy encouraged competitiveness and transfer of technology. Other countries should open their economies to enjoy the benefit of trade liberalization while those already benefited must ensure that the openness is extended to new frontiers. It is important to increase transparency and free flow of information on which the service and financial sectors depend. Further, there is a need to develop effective policies for noncompetitive industries. With this, a number of countries need to improve their infrastructure, especially in transportation, telecommunications, and power supply to sustain growth. In turn, public finances should be strengthened by reducing outlays in less productive areas and regional trade initiative should be compatible with the global trade liberalization.  Another challenge is in the financial flows. Stable macroeconomic policies will give confidence to financial markets and attract private savings in the domestic level and regional cooperation. Transparent and predictable regulatory policies, and reliable legal framework are essential ingredients in creating a favorable investment climate. Then the increasing pace of financial innovation and integration pose a problem. Room for policy maneuver and scope for policy mistakes is limited due to large capital flows. The regulation and supervision of Asia countries should keep pace with the complexities of banking business. Policies should be enacted that will strengthen the banking systems without fear of aggravating banking sector problems. Regional policy coordination is another challenge. Each country has an increasing stake in the sound policies of the others with countries becoming more integrated. Countries within the region can play a 
constructive role in encouraging each other in maintaining sound policies. On the talk given by Secretary-General of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Rodolfo C. Severino at the Symposium on “AFTA and Beyond” on May 30, 2002, he said that regional integration is the only way to generate sufficient economic activity, improve efficiency, heighten competition, attract investments, and thus create jobs. He said further that Southeast Asian countries should integrate to be competitive in the global economy to counteract forces of globalization. The massive agriculture subsidies in the European Union, Japan, and United States; agricultural protection in the guise of quarantine regulations; the abuse of anti-dumping; imposition of prohibitive costs and litigation to developing countries are among the policies that strengthen the value of protectionism among the Asian countries. Thus, ASEAN has no choice but to create a strong bond to have a better chance working together in the harshly competitive world.   Challenges: ASEAN and COVID-19  The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has severely affected East and Southeast Asian economies, especially by disrupting the flow of goods and services in the region’s global value chains (GVCs). The impacts ‘and implications of pandemic on the regional economy, especially with respect to regional economic governance are widely discussed by ASEAN Leaders in various meetings to forge a more coordinated regional response. The meetings with the health officials of ASEAN member states, and the ASEAN + 3 countries (the People’s Republic of China, Japan and Republic of Korea), and between Heads of States, Foreign Ministers, Defence Ministers, Ministers for Finance, Ministers for Agriculture and Forestry, and Ministers for Labour had impelled commitments to combat against the pandemic.  Outlining the commitments on related-health issues: Information sharing on detection, control and interventions; coordinating cross border health response, including contact tracing and outbreak investigation; capacity building interventions on public health emergency, scientific research, preparedness and response; strengthening early warning system for pandemics and other epidemic diseases; and support to ensure the adequacy of essential medicines, vaccines and medical devices both within the member countries and the region, alongside with the setting up a reserve of essential medical supplies, and COVID-19 ASEAN Response Fund for public health emergencies. Pledges on Economic, agriculture, labor and tourism-related issues: ensuring the resilience of supply chain, coordination for preservation, transport and distribution technologies and infrastructure to reduce food insecurity, supporting the development and implementation of a post-COVID-19 Crisis Recovery Plan to build up ASEAN tourism capabilities; and addressing the impact of COVID-19 on labour and employment.   However, there are shortcomings in the Regional response on the pandemic, by far the regional commitments on the meetings barely matched up with the, actions on the ground. Firstly, the coordinated regional response was difficult because of the different levels of infections, specifics national responses and political will. For instance, the responses of Singapore and Vietnam, cited as global success, quite different from other countries that lack interest in combating the disease. Secondly, the pandemic itself results in vastly fundamental tensions. The global health threat needs 
greater coordination and cooperation within countries in a region, however, the generic responses‘ to the crisis focused on lockdowns and border restrictions, which undermines regional integration. The lockdowns and border closures rendered migrant workers from other others within the region more vulnerable and neglected.  Undocumented workers like Burmese were deported from Malaysia and thousands of migrant workers from Laos and Myanmar flocking to border crossings, defying the Bangkok lockdown to return home have been jobless. The lack of social protection of the undocumented migrant workers in and from ASEAN states poses risks to their health and access to health services. Indubitably, the economic impact of Covid-19 is likely to be long-term. The Asian Development Bank assesses the economic losses in Asia and the Pacific to range between $1.7 trillion to $2.5 trillion, with the region accounting for about 30% of the overall decline in global output. The crisis henceforth calls for economic collaboration among countries within the regions to stimulate economic growth. 

The reshaping of world economic geography entails corresponding trends in political reorganisation. Because political trends lag behind economic changes, market-driven logic takes over even if it does not take social goal achievement into account. The need for political mobilisation therefore arises because basic human rights and liberties are in jeopardy. This chapter illustrates the political reorganisation of the world in terms of a fourfold hierarchy and government relations. Each level of the hierarchy has its own issues and is accompanied by corresponding options for political organisation and the application of democratic principles. The author also includes a discussion of the intra-regional and inter-regional directorates and a brief discussion regarding various aspects of regionalism.

good day everyone

welcome to this subject the contemporary

world

again i miss noviti balikot your

instructor

for this subject so we are now in our

lesson six which is

all about the world of region so in this

lesson

uh you are expected to look at the

regions as a political entities

examine what brings regions together

as they interlock with globalization

and explore the other facets of

regionalism

especially those that pertain to

identities

ethics religion ecological

sustainability and health

and lastly conclude by asking where all

of this regionalism are bringing us

members of the nation and as a citizen

of the world so world of regions

according to edward d

mansfield and helene v milner

state that economic and political

definitions of regions

vary but there are certain basic

features that everyone can agree on

so when

we say a group of countries located in

same geographical or specified area

or an amalgamation of two regions or a

combination of more than two regions

organized to regulate and oversee the

flows and policy choices

we refer it to as regions so example of

regions are europe

central and eastern europe region asian

region

african region the mediterranean

and the middle east and the americas so

those regions are made

up of uh nations or countries

now and when we say

a regional concentration of economic

flows and its process

of dividing an area into smaller

segments called regions

we are talking about regionalization

so one of the most obvious example of

regionalization

is the division of nation into different

states or provinces so businesses

use this regionalization as a management

tool and a way to make certain that

needs unique to a particular area are

met next is when we say a political

process

characterized by economic policy

cooperation and coordination among

countries

we mean this as regina

lisem so regionalism

meaning to say a political ideology

so it seeks to increase the political

power or influence of the people of one

or more

sub-national regions so it focuses

focuses on the development of a

political

or social system based on one or

more region so those are some of the

definitions important to the topic

our topic for this lesson the word the

world

of religions so

countries or nations respond

economically and

politically to globalization in various

ways

first some countries are large enough

and have a lot of resources to dictate

on how they participate

in the process of global integration

so for example china now the country

china the china offers its cheap

and huge workforce to attract

foreign businesses and expand

trade with other countries so same with

us and japan

and other countries also

make up their small size by taking

advantage

their strategic location

so for example the country um

singapore and switzerland so these are

small countries

so they compensate their lack of

resources

into financial bunking hubs

so despite its small size according to

the ambassador

to singapore kathleen mcfarland

singapore sits stride one of the most

important jail strategically important

locations

in the world so it is the economic

gateway between the east and the west

as one of the world's most important

trade

routes on the malacca straits and it is

the world's largest transshipment

port so singapore also is the security

gateway between east and the west as the

entrance to the south china

sea right so third in most cases

however countries form a regional

alliance for they believe that

strength there is strength

in numbers so when we talk about

alliance this is an international

relations

it's either a formal agreement between

two or more states or countries

for mutual support in case of

war so contemporary alliances

provide for combined action on the part

of two or more independent states

and are generally defensive in nature

so obligating allies to join forces

if one or more of them is attacked

by another state or coalition

so for example as

the alliance of north atlantic treaty

organization

or the nato so this is

for uh military defense

no the nato is the most widely known

defense

grouping and it is formed

during cold war so this was when the

western european countries

plus uh western european countries

plus united states not agreed

to protect europe not against the threat

of the soviet

union and

another alliance

for military defense is the warsaw pact

the soviet union by then responded by

creating a regional another regional

alliance the

warsaw pact consisting of the eastern

european

countries under the soviet uh

domination so the soviet the soviet

union imploded

in december 1991 but the natto

uh still remain in its place

right so

then uh regional alliances

are formed uh countries form regional

organizations because they need to

poor to pool their

resources to get what

better returns for their exports as well

as

expand their leverage against the

trading partners

so for example

the organization of the petroleum

countries or the opec which was

established in 1960

so it was established by iran the

countries iran

iraq kuwait

saudi arabia and

venezuela so this is to regulate the

production

and the sale of oil so this regional

alliance

flex its its muscles in 1970s

when its member countries took over the

domestic production

and dictated the crude oil prices

in the world and opec's

success convinced the nine other

oil producing countries no to join

them all right next is

uh countries form regional alliance to

protect

their independence from the pressures of

the superpower

politics so for example the president

of the yogoslavia egypt ghana

and indonesia no created the nam

or what they call the non-allied

movement in 1961

to pursue world peace and international

cooperation

human rights national sovereignty

racial and national equality and

non-intervention

and peaceful conflict resolution

so at its peak the nam or the non-allied

movement

is or had 120 member

countries so the movement however was

never formalized

and continues to exist up to present

although

it lacks the same favor that it had in

the

past and finally

what brings the countries together is

because of economic crisis now so

economic crisis

compels countries to come together

so for example the thai

economy or the silent country in asia

so the thai economy collapsed in 1996

so after it's fur after the foreign

currency speculators and troubled

international banks

demanded that the thai government pay

back

its loan so there is a rapid withdrawal

of foreign investments

which bankrupted the economy of thailand

so the crisis began to spread to other

asian countries

as their currencies were also devalued

in foreign investment

left in a hurry so with this the imf

if you have remembered tried to reverse

the crisis

but it was only after the assailant

countries

uh which are the brunei cambodia

indonesia the lao malaysia myanmar

philippines singapore

thailand and vietnam no

along with china japan and south korea

agreed to

establish an emergency fund to

anticipate a crisis

a crisis that assayan economists

stabilized so the crisis made saiyan

more united and coordinated

all right so

it is not only the state states or

countries agreed

to work or to join together in the name

of a single cause or because of one

reason

communities also engage in region

original organizing no so this

is what we call the near regionalism

so they can be a tiny association

small associations that include no more

more than a few actors and focus on a

single issue or a

or huge continental unions that address

a multitude of common problems

from territorial defense to food

security

security so organizations i'm

representing this new regionalism

likewise rely on the power of

individuals uh non-government

organizations or

ngos and associations to lead

to link up with one another in pursuit

of a particular

goal also this new regionalism

[Music]

is identified with reformist who

shares the same values norms

institutions and systems

that exist outside of the traditional

and established mainstream institutions

and systems

so some organizations

partner with government to initiate

social change for example the assayan

issued its human rights declaration in

2009

but the regional body left it to the

member countries to apply the degree

the declarations principles as they see

it fit

so aware of those democratic rights are

limited in many asian countries

so this new regionalism organizations

use this uh declaration to pressure

these

governments to pass laws

aside from that uh some regulations

that protect and promote human

rights so

um examples of these original

organizations

which dedicate themselves to specialized

causes these are the rainforest

foundation

the regional interfaith youth networks

organization

the migrant forum in asia

so let's start with the one organ with

one organization which is the rainforest

organization

a rainforest foundation which is

established by the activists across

um central and south america

so what is the aim of this organization

it it aimed to protect the indigenous

people

and the rainforest of brazil guyana

panama and peru so another organization

is the regional interfaith youth

networks so this

is formed by the young christians across

africa the middle east the americas and

the caribbean

what is the aim to promote

con conflict prevention

conflict resolution peace education

and sustainable development

lastly last example is the migrant forum

asia this is another regular ngo

and tradable unions which is community

to protect and promote the rights and

the welfare

of the migrant workers

so those are um

examples of the regional organizations

known

with a specialized or which dedicate

themselves to specialized

classes so these organizations primarily

lies

in their moral standing and their

ability to combine

lobbying with pressure politics so

unfortunately

most of them are poorly financed

so this places them at a disadvantage

when

dealing with their official counterparts

who have large state

funds so their impact in global polit

politics however is or therefore is

limited so this new regionalism

differs significantly from the

traditional state

to state regionalism so when it comes to

identifying

problems for example state

treat poverty organization environment

degradation

as technical or economic issues that can

be

resolved by refining existing programs

of state

agencies and making minor changes in

economic policies

and creating new offices that address

this

issue however near regional

regionalism advocates such as

the ngo global forum see

these issues as a reflections of a

flawed economic development

and environmental modern

so today

this regionalism

faces multiple challenges

and the most serious of which is the

resurgence of militant nationalism

and populism so the relationship for

example

of the united st

so the alliance core member with the

nato

has become problematic after donald

trump

demonized the organization as simply

he believed that it is just leeching

american

military power without

giving anything in return

so another example is the

most crisis-ridden regional organization

today

is the european union

so the continuing financial crisis

of the regions forcing countries like

greece

like greece to consider leaving the

union a

in the union who gain more flexibility

to gain more flexibility in their

economic policy

so anti-immigrant sentiment and a

popular

populist campaign against europe have

already led

to the united kingdom voting to leave

the european union

in the move the media has turned the

brexit

right so asylum members also

another challenge to re uh to

regionalism

in asia the assayan members continue to

disagree over the extent

to which member countries should

sacrifice their sovereignty

for the sake of regional stability

so recently saiyan countries also

disagreed

over how to relate to china

so with the philippines and able to get

other countries support

to support the condemnation of china's

occupation

in the west philippine

sea so

final challenge to regionalism

is the differing visions of what

regionally regionalism should be for the

western governments

no so for the western governments

they see regional organizations

not simply as economic formations

but also an instrument of political

democratization and

on the other hand the non-western and

developing societies however

may have a different view regarding

globalism globalization development and

democrat

democracy like singapore china

and russia they see democracy as

an obstacle to the implementation and

the deepening of

economic globalization because constant

public inquiry about

economic projects and lengthy debate

slow down

the implementation or lead to unclear

outcomes right

so

the factors or the difference between

globalization and regionalism

is that globalization as we all know

it signifies the events relating to the

globe all over the world

and it is the way countries and people

of the world interact or

integrate so while the term

regionalization

refers to the event across regions

that are sub-global like europe

northern northern northern america

amazon in brazil

yen and these regions

are formed by two fucktors

we have here physical and cultural

factors physical is defined by the

landforms

no like continent mountain ranges soil

natural vegetations

and another one regions are formed

because of

cultural factor which is distinguished

distinguished

by such traits languages politics

religions economic and industries

and these regions are kept together

through the following

so like natural factor history factor

administration

and communication so we have also these

factors which

leads to the greater integration of the

asyn

region like trade

similar culture common goals

mutual beliefs similar security

and similar

security needs so

indeed the history of regionalism

shows that regional associations

emerge as the new global concern

arise so the future of this regionalism

will be contingent

on the immense changes in the global

politics

that will emerge in the 21st

ASIAN REGIONALISM

Chapter 2
Asian Regionalism:
Context and Scope
Emerging Asian Regionalism
26
Chapter 2
Asian regionalism:
context and scope
Asian regionalism is the product of economic interaction,
not political planning. As a result of successful, outwardoriented growth strategies, Asian economies have grown
not only richer, but also closer together. In recent years,
new technological trends have further strengthened ties
among them, as have the rise of the PRC and India and the region’s
growing weight in the global economy. But adversity also played a
role. The 1997/98 financial crisis dealt a severe setback to much of the
region, highlighting Asia’s shared interests and common vulnerabilities
and providing an impetus for regional cooperation. The challenge
now facing Asia’s policy makers is simply put yet incredibly complex:
Where markets have led, how should governments follow?
In the early stages of Asia’s economic takeoff, regional integration
proceeded slowly. East Asian economies, in particular, focused
on exporting to developed country markets rather than selling
to each other. Initially, they specialized in simple, labor-intensive
manufactures. As the more advanced among them graduated to more
sophisticated products, less developed economies filled the gap that
they left behind. The Japanese economist Akamatsu (1962) famously
compared this pattern of development to flying geese. In this model,
economies moved in formation not because they were directly
linked to each other, but because they followed similar paths. Since
these development paths hinged on sequential—and sometimes
competing—ties to markets outside the region, they did not initially
yield strong economic links within Asia itself.
Now, though, Asian economies are becoming closely intertwined.
This is not because the region’s development strategy has changed;
it remains predominantly nondiscriminatory and outward-oriented.
Rather, interdependence is deepening because Asia’s economies have
grown large and prosperous enough to become important to each
other, and because their patterns of production increasingly depend
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
27
on networks that span several Asian economies and involve wideranging exchanges of parts and components among them. Asia is at
the center of the development of such production networks because
it has efficient transport and communication links, as well as policies
geared to supporting trade. As these new production patterns tie
Asian economies closer together, they also boost the international
competitiveness of the region’s firms.
Against this background, the financial crisis that swept through
Asia in 1997/98—in this chapter, referred to simply as “the crisis”—put
the region’s interdependence into harsh new focus. Emerging Asian
economies that had opened up their financial markets—Indonesia,
the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand—were
worst hit, but nearly all Asian economies were eventually affected.
Most then used the crisis as an opportunity to pursue wide-ranging
reforms in finance as well as in other areas of weakness that the
crisis exposed. Asia emerged with a greater appreciation of its shared
interests and the value of regional cooperation. Since the crisis, Asia
has become not only more integrated, but also more willing to pull
together.
This chapter traces the progress of Asian integration and explores
its implications for the future. It begins by exploring the connections
between Asia’s development patterns and economic integration.
It then examines the challenges interdependence poses for policy,
setting the stage for subsequent chapters.
2.1.	Growth and integration
Asian regionalism is emerging against the backdrop of a remarkable
half century of economic development. In the four decades from 1956
to 1996, East Asian living standards—as measured by real (inflationadjusted) output per person—rose at a rate faster than has ever
been sustained anywhere else. Of the 10 economies that recorded
average rises of 4.5% a year or more during that period, 8 were in East
Asia—as were all four that exceeded 5.0%. Other Asian economies
rank in the upper tiers of the world’s growth distribution. Over those
four decades, living standards in the 16 integrating Asian economies
analyzed in this study grew at an average of 5.0% a year, while the
world as a whole averaged only 1.9% (Figure 2.1). Although many
other countries have experienced rapid growth over several years
(Hausmann, Rodrik, and Pritchett 2004; Jones and Olken 2005), this
cluster of sustained, consistent outperformance is unprecedented.
Emerging Asian Regionalism
28
These extraordinary results were achieved by economies that
differed widely in size; incomes; endowments of natural, human,
and capital resources; specialization patterns; political organization;
language; culture; and history. While the economies’ development has
not resulted from a uniform strategy, the evidence suggests that their
policies and growth trajectories involved basic similarities (World
Bank 1993).
Flying in sequence
Competition in global markets is at the heart of what is now understood
as the East Asian development model (Kuznets 1988). When the model
emerged in the 1950s, its focus on labor-intensive exports was new; the
prevailing “big push” development strategy favored large, coordinated
0
2
8
32
12
10
37
< -3 -3~-1.5 -1.5~0 0~1.5 1.5~3.0 3.0~4.5 > 4.5 Number of economies
Includes:
People's Rep. of
China; Hong Kong,
China; Japan;
Republic of Korea;
Malaysia;
Singapore;
Taipei,China; and
Thailand.
Includes:
Indonesia
Includes: Philippines
1.7
5.0
1.9
Rest of the World
Integrating Asia
World
Figure 2.1. Asia’s exceptional growth record
World distribution of economies by long-term per capita growth rate
GDP = gross domestic product.
Source: CICUP 2007. Penn World Tables. Available: http://pwt.econ.upenn.edu/ (accessed
October 2007).
a. Average per capita GDP growth rate, 1956–1996
b. Average per capita GDP growth rate, 1956–1996
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
29
investments in a bid to achieve economies of scale, usually in importcompeting industries. East Asian development instead relied on the
region’s abundant asset of relatively well-educated, low-wage labor
and in time leveraged it with ample savings and investment. At first,
East Asia exported simple, labor-intensive manufactures at low
prices to meet its urgent need for foreign exchange. Subsequently, it
created a framework for sustained growth as economies imported,
adapted, and eventually developed internationally competitive
technologies. The region moved from labor-intensive products into
many sophisticated activities—principally in manufacturing—which
now include world-class process capabilities and prestigious global
brands. Asia is also becoming competitive in service industries.
The model emerged in Japan in the aftermath of World War II.
Although Japan was already industrialized, the war had devastated its
economy and sharply lowered its wages. Access to markets in the US
enabled Japan to develop labor-intensive exports, fuelling a dramatic
rise in savings, investment, and economic growth. As Japan’s exports
shifted to more advanced products, East Asia’s newly industrializing
economies—Hong Kong, China; the Republic of Korea; Singapore;
and Taipei,China—filled the gap for labor-intensive exports. In time,
Southeast Asia and the PRC followed a similar trajectory. Although
these waves differed in some respects, they produced dramatic
spurts of growth, as Figure 2.2 shows. Average per capita income
growth in Japan exceeded 5% a year from the 1950s on. The newly
industrializing economies entered a similar high-growth phase in the
early 1960s, followed by several Southeast Asian economies in the
early 1970s and the PRC in the late 1970s. A new wave is now taking
shape in other South and Southeast Asian economies.
These remarkable successes were achieved thanks to
receptive global markets as well as sound national policies.
Since the establishment of the GATT in 1947, eight rounds of
international negotiations have slashed developed countries’
barriers to manufactured imports. World trade has expanded
27-fold since 1950, three times faster than world output growth (WTO
2007). In this favorable environment, Asian economies took advantage
of a wide range of global opportunities, and their connections with
markets both inside and outside the region grew very rapidly.
By the time the East Asian model had become widely celebrated
(World Bank 1993), it had been at work for four decades. Use of the
model had raised incomes in many Asian countries and was widely
emulated around the world. Opportunities for regional transactions
Emerging Asian Regionalism
30
Figure 2.2. Successive waves of rapid development
Growth rates of per-capita GDP of selected Asian economies
ASEAN=Association of Southeast Asian Nations, GDP=gross domestic product,
NIE=newly industrializing economy, PRC=People’s Republic of China.
Asian NIEs include Hong Kong, China; Republic of Korea; Singapore; and Taipei,China.
ASEAN-5 economies include: Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, and Viet Nam.
Source: CICUP 2007. Penn World Tables. Available: http://pwt.econ.upenn.edu/
(accessed October 2007).
1956
0
2
4
6
8
10
1961 1966 1971 1976 1981 1986 1991 1996
Annual per capita GDP % growth rate
Japan Asian NIEs ASEAN-5 PRC
Japan
Asian NIEs
ASEAN-5
PRC
increased, but so did the potential for intensified competition among
exporters and resistance to exports in external markets.
As more countries adopted labor-intensive growth strategies,
multinationals became adept at shifting production from one lowcost economy to another. The emergence of the PRC, given its sheer
size, unsettled regional trading patterns. By the mid-1990s, the PRC
accounted for 20% of Asian trade and 70% of the region’s foreign
direct investment (FDI) inflows. While the PRC emerged as a vigorous
competitor, its growth also created new market opportunities for the
region’s finished products, raw materials, and especially intermediate
inputs. In effect, the growth of the PRC helped to catalyze the
development of regional production networks. Thus, while the PRC
caused large and often difficult adjustments in the region’s exports
(Loungani 2000, Eichengreen and Tong 2006), it also injected new
energy into Asian trade. Asian exports soared again after the crisis
and came to be increasingly directed toward regional markets.
While East Asia’s real sector grew more sophisticated, its financial
sector remained relatively underdeveloped. In many countries, the
financial sector had initially served as a conduit for official investment
policies, with funds channeled to companies mostly through banks
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
31
rather than through capital markets. With some notable exceptions,
including two—Hong Kong, China and Singapore—the region’s
capital markets lagged behind their peers in other parts of the world
(McKinnon 1993, Arestis and Demetriades 1997). Close banking
relationships in turn led to high corporate leverage, and neither banks
nor companies developed extensive expertise in managing risk.
The reform of East Asia’s financial systems began well before
the crisis, but the legacy of financial repression persisted. In the
mid-1990s, several Asian economies deregulated their financial
sectors and opened their capital accounts (Park and Bae 2002),
following what was then a near-consensus strategy. Liberalization
was widely advocated in the economic literature and by international
organizations, and was embedded in the new services agreements of
WTO. Liberalization unfolded initially in the benign context of booming
economies and strong global financial markets, and it appeared to
work—even without rigorous prudential regulation. Asian securities
became desirable to international investors both because they were
seen as intrinsically valuable and because they were thought to carry
implicit government guarantees.
While financial deregulation promised substantial long-term
benefits, in the short term, it created vulnerabilities. Capital account
liberalization, in particular, complicated macroeconomic management.
To stimulate investment and exports, East Asian governments had
traditionally pursued mildly expansionary fiscal and monetary
policies, along with stable exchange rates. Over time, these policies
tended to lead to inflation and real exchange rate overvaluation. Most
East Asian economies had experienced such cycles, usually ending in
devaluation (Kim, Kose, and Plummer 2003).5
 But the liberalization
of capital accounts made this policy mix riskier. When a government
sought to defend its currency peg by raising interest rates, it would
attract substantial inflows of money brought in for speculation,
which could quickly flow out if the peg’s viability came into doubt.
Speculative attacks could force rapid devaluations and, through
interactions with a vulnerable financial sector, severe financial and
economic downturns.
The crisis and its legacy
Even with hindsight, though, the events of 1997/98 seem improbable.
The crisis struck some of the world’s most successful economies and,
5
 For example, Indonesia in 1978 and 1982, Thailand in 1979, the Republic of Korea
in 1980, and Malaysia and Singapore in 1985.
Emerging Asian Regionalism
32
in short order, brought down governments, threatened seemingly
well-established firms and institutions, and imposed severe hardship
on hundreds of millions of people. Yet it proved to be short, and
economic activity rebounded quickly. The crisis also had a silver
lining. It stimulated difficult policy and institutional reforms to
remedy the structural weaknesses in East Asian economies that it
had exposed. It also highlighted Asia’s growing interdependence,
weaknesses in the global financial system, and thus the benefits of
Asian cooperation.
The details of the crisis, which are summarized in Figure 2.3, have
been extensively analyzed.6
 On 2 July 1997, Thailand abandoned its
short but costly defense of the baht against speculative attack. The
baht plunged. The attacks then spread to Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, and eventually Hong Kong, China; the Republic of Korea;
and Taipei,China. Only the PRC and Hong Kong, China withstood the
pressure to float or devalue. The attacks soon ended. Most East Asian
currencies bottomed out in January 1998, although the repercussions
of these events reverberated around the world and eventually led to
a global liquidity crisis in October 1998. After an emergency cut in US
interest rates, global liquidity returned almost immediately and the
crisis was over (Marshall 2001).
The economic impact of the crisis was severe. The currency
crisis led to a banking crisis in several economies, and the resulting
collapse in credit led to deep recessions. These developments were
exacerbated, in some countries, by a controversial deflationary
policy mix (adopted in the context of International Monetary Fund
[IMF] programs). The programs included monetary tightening, fiscal
restraint, and prompt structural reform, accompanied by actions that
closed failing financial and nonfinancial companies (Berg 1999). As
Figure 2.3 shows, once credit markets recovered and macroeconomic
policies were loosened, output rebounded. All of the affected
economies—except Hong Kong, China; Indonesia; and Japan—
expanded in 1999. Deep scars remained; poverty rates rose in many
countries and, in most, growth did not return to precrisis levels.
Debate continues on whether the crisis was triggered by macroor micro-economic fundamentals, or simply by too many investors
“rushing for the exit” (Radelet et al. 1998). The suddenness, rapid
geographic spread, and brevity of the crisis suggest that financial
panic was important—perhaps dominant—but, as in most complex
6
 Good summaries of the chronology of the crisis are provided by Berg (1999),
Joosten (2004), and World Bank (1998 and 2000).
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
33
Figure 2.3. Timeline of the Asian financial crisis
June 1996–June 1999
GDP = gross domestic product, HK$ = Hong Kong dollar, IMF = International Monetary Fund, ln = logarithm (natural), NT$ = New Taiwan dollar,
S$ = Singapore dollar, US$ = United States dollar.
Source: Data from IMF various years. International Financial Statistics. Available: http://www.imfstatistics.org/ (accessed October 2007).
-1.00
-0.75
-0.50
-0.25
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
15-Jun1996
15-Sep1996
15-Dec1996
15-Mar1997
15-Jun1997
15-Sep1997
15-Dec1997
15-Mar1998
15-Jun1998
15-Sep1998
15-Dec1998
15-Mar1999
15-Jun1999
ln (currency/US$, 7/1996=1)
-12
-9
-6
-3
0
3
6
9
Percent
Exchange
Rate
GDP
growth
Thailand
warnings
Baht
oats
Peso,
ringgit,
rupiah,
oat
HK$, S$,
NT$, won,
under pressure
Benchmark Rep.
of Korea IMF
program agreed
Crisis spreads to
Russian Federation,
Latin America
Global liquidity
crunch; US Federal
Reserve intervenes
Recovery
mostly under
way
Simple averages for 5 most
crisis-affected countries
GDP Growth Currency/US$
economic phenomena, multiple causes played a role (World Bank
1998). Stronger macroeconomic policies and financial systems in
the affected economies might have prevented it; more decisive
and appropriate action by the international financial community
could have limited its damage (Ito 2007); and, had an Asian regional
financing facility existed, it might have provided more timely and
better-tailored support.
On the eve of the crisis, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, and
Thailand all faced macroeconomic imbalances and fragile financial
sectors. Their current-account deficits—in the range of 1–3% of gross
domestic product (GDP)—were perhaps not indefinitely sustainable,
but could have been corrected gradually, given their histories of
essentially sound fiscal policies and sustained economic growth. There
is little doubt, however, that the vulnerability of the region’s financial
sector contributed to sudden and widespread liquidity concerns. The
Emerging Asian Regionalism
34
combination of capital account liberalization and new, untested, and
inadequately supervised domestic financial institutions generated a
“double mismatch.” In effect, short-term, foreign currency debt was
used to fund long-term, local currency assets (Kawai, Newfarmer, and
Schmukler 2005). Once currencies began to depreciate and foreign
lenders withdrew funds, a downward spiral ensued.
There were no “circuit breakers”—national or regional—to halt
the downturn. As the double mismatch problem came to be widely
understood, currency runs followed, saddling companies and financial
institutions with unmanageable foreign currency liabilities. Because
their debt was held by banks, bank runs followed. And because
several countries shared these structural characteristics, bad news
about one quickly led to a loss of confidence in others. The region,
as a whole, lacked institutional arrangements or resources to tackle
the crisis. So, despite the limited geographic extent of the crisis, only
global institutions were in a position to help. The adequacy of their
response, as already noted, is still debated, but the interventions
clearly failed to restore confidence in the short run, and may even
have aggravated the panic.7
While other Asian economies plunged into deep recession, the
PRC was barely affected because its capital account was closed.
Rather than devaluing or pursuing austerity, the PRC sustained
aggregate demand by replacing exports with public investment.
Growth scarcely dipped. To gain similar room for maneuver, Malaysia
also restricted capital movements in September 1998. The precise
impact of this decision is difficult to assess; by the time the capital
controls were imposed, currency markets were stabilizing across
the region. In any case, the controls did not prevent Malaysia from
continuing to attract investment capital and may well have created
additional space for expansionary policies that accelerated its
recovery (Athukorala 2007a).
Asia soon turned the crisis into an opportunity for reform. At a
national level, most of its economies gained experience in coping with
financial distress and, as evidence in Chapter 4 will show, developed
institutions to facilitate corporate restructuring and to make their
financial sectors less vulnerable. Regionally, they established new
mechanisms to provide emergency resources for future crises. The
7
 These initiatives were under the stabilization programs negotiated with
the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Thailand closed 56 nonbank financial
institutions in the early months of the crisis and took control of four domestic
banks, Indonesia closed 23 banks, and the Republic of Korea closed 14 banks.
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
35
lessons of the crisis are summarized in the appendix to this chapter.8
Two broad conclusions stand out.
• First, rapid development inevitably creates structural tensions,
such as the lagging development of East Asia’s financial
sector, which tend to be masked by strong growth. Economic
development requires the parallel development of sound
institutions and good governance, but this does not happen
automatically.
• Second, Asian economies have deeper connections with each
other and a larger stake in their common macroeconomic
stability than was previously understood. Integrating Asia
requires strong cooperative mechanisms that aim to avoid
crises (through surveillance) and to manage and contain those
that arise (through liquidity support).
Renaissance
Since the crisis, Asia has reemerged as the world’s most dynamic
region, experiencing what a new World Bank study has called the East
Asian renaissance (Gill and Kharas 2007). But the pattern of Asian
development has changed. The PRC, India, and Viet Nam are now the
region’s—and the world’s—fastest growing economies. Because the
PRC and India are also the world’s most populous countries, their rise
dramatically changes the regional and global economic landscapes.
Most other countries in the region are also growing solidly, if less
spectacularly than before the crisis. Growth in the directly affected
economies of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN),
though disappointing compared to earlier periods, is also gradually
strengthening (Figure 2.4).
The slowdown of growth in most crisis-affected economies reflects
a decline in their rates of investment.9
 In the newly industrializing
economies, for example, the share of investment in GDP fell from
8
 Much literature exists on lessons from the crisis. Some articles involve studies
by IMF (2003) and individuals involved in the management of the crisis (Furman
and Stiglitz 1998, Berg 1999, Fischer 2002). Others represent an Asian perspective
(Kawai, Newfarmer, and Schmukler 2005; Ito 2007; Lee and Rhee 2007; Sussangkarn
and Vichyanond 2007).
9
 This experience is consistent with recent research that finds that the aftereffects
of a crisis can linger for many years, and that few economies make up the ground
they lose during the crisis itself (Cerra and Saxena 2005). In more favorable cases,
output growth returns to precrisis levels, but even then the output trajectory
tends to remain permanently lower due to slow or negative growth during the
crisis. In less favorable cases, the post-crisis growth rate also declines (Becker
and Mauro 2006).
Emerging Asian Regionalism
36
Figure 2.4. Asia’s robust recovery
Real GDP growth rates of selected Asian economies
ASEAN = Association of Southeast Asian Nations, GDP = gross domestic product, NIE = newly industrializing economy.
Asian NIEs include Hong Kong, China; Republic of Korea; Singapore; and Taipei,China.
ASEAN-5 economies include Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, and Viet Nam.
Source: ADB 2008c. Statistical Database System. Available: https://sdbs.adb.org/sdbs/index.jsp (accessed April 2008).
People’s Republic of China India Asian NIEs ASEAN-5
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Percent
31% to 25%; in the largest ASEAN economies, from 30% to 23%. These
declines are not due to a drop in the productivity of investment (at least
as measured by the incremental capital-output ratio) or to inadequate
savings. Rather, they reflect increased investment abroad. The cause
of this investment shift remains a puzzle (Kramer 2006). It could be a
decline in profitable investment opportunities at home, perceptions
of continuing high risks at home, or a desire by governments to
accumulate foreign exchange reserves as insurance—or perhaps a
combination of all three. In the more advanced economies—Malaysia;
Singapore; and Taipei,China—the decline in investment may represent
a natural deceleration from rates that were unsustainably high. The
investment slowdown (and prospects for its reversal in countries
with potential for rapid growth) is further analyzed in Chapter 5.
Meanwhile, the PRC, India, and some smaller Asian countries
have emerged as the region’s growth engines (Srinivasan 2004).
The PRC’s true “great leap forward” since the late 1970s is without
historical parallel (Lin 2004). This economy of 1.3 billion people has
for the past 30 years grown at an annual rate of 9.7%—over three
times faster than the world’s. Within a generation, the PRC has been
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
37
transformed from an inefficiently planned economy into a major,
dynamic, mostly market-based economy. In 2005, the PRC accounted
for 5% of the world economy at market exchange rates and 10% in
terms of purchasing power. It is already the second-largest exporter
in the world.
India’s acceleration, although more recent, is also impressive.
With 1.1 billion people and rapid population growth, India appears
set to be the world’s most populous country within two decades. Its
economy has grown by 6.3% a year since major reforms were enacted in
1991, and almost as fast in the previous decade, following the reforms
of 1980 (Ahluwalia 2005). In 2003–2006, growth averaged 8.5%. Yet
India still accounts for only 2% of world output at market prices and
less than 5% at purchasing power parity (PPP). As a relatively closed
economy, it also contributes only 1% of world trade. But at current
growth rates, these shares will increase rapidly. India’s economy
is not yet on a par with the PRC’s, but its global impact is already
significant, notably in services. India’s infrastructure needs are vast
and are likely to become a major driver of regional investment.
There are good reasons to be optimistic about the PRC’s and
India’s prospects. Their large markets and low-cost, relatively
well-educated labor forces make them top investment targets.
They are especially attractive sites for new industrial clusters and
production networks. And their growth is likely to energize industrial
development throughout the region in sectors such as electronics,
information technology, business services, textiles, chemicals, and
pharmaceuticals (Ando 2005).
To compete with the PRC and India, as well as the other
integrating economies of the EU, NAFTA, and other regional
groups, the governments of smaller Asian economies—particularly
in Southeast Asia—are now intent on building larger economic
zones with transparent internal borders. In announcing ASEAN’s
commitment to a single market, senior officials explicitly noted the
need to make markets large enough to compete with those of the PRC
and India (The Times of India 2006). The absorption of Asia’s giant
economies into the regional and global trading systems presents one
of the central challenges and opportunities facing Asia and the world
in coming decades (Eichengreen 2006a).
Asia in 2020
Asia’s outlook is bright. While long-term projections are inherently
speculative and contested, Asia is likely to continue to outperform
over the next decade. Whether the PRC and India can sustain the
Emerging Asian Regionalism
38
Table 2.1. Population and GDP projections for 2020
Economies
Population GDP at market prices GDP at PPP GDP per capita
(million) ($ billion)
Average
growth
rate
($ billion) (at market prices)
2005 2020 2005 2020 2005–
2020 2005 2020 2005 2020
Cambodia 13.8 18.6 6 15 6.3 20 48 454 806
China, People’s Rep. of 1,303.7 1,422.8 2,244 5,877 6.6 5,333 13,970 1,721 4,131
Hong Kong, China 6.8 7.1 178 353 4.7 243 483 26,094 49,718
India 1,101.3 1,295.7 779 1,748 5.6 2,341 5,255 707 1,349
Indonesia 218.9 259.5 287 611 5.2 708 1,506 1,311 2,355
Japan 127.8 123.3 4,549 5,806 1.7 3,870 4,939 35,604 47,088
Korea, Republic of 48.1 50.5 791 1,580 4.7 1,027 2,052 16,441 31,287
Lao People’s Dem. Rep. 5.7 7.2 3 5 3.7 10 18 508 694
Malaysia 26.1 31.1 137 313 5.7 300 682 5,250 10,064
Philippines 85.3 103.3 99 166 3.6 250 421 1,158 1,607
Singapore 4.3 4.9 117 240 4.6 180 371 26,879 48,980
Taipei,China 22.7 24.4 355 641 4.0 590 1,067 15,674 26,270
Thailand 64.8 69.5 176 347 4.6 445 877 2,721 4,993
Viet Nam 83.1 97.5 53 117 5.5 178 394 637 1,200
Integrating Asia 3,112.7 3,515.9 9,783 17,839 4.1 15,514 32,120 3,143 5,074
European Union 450.6 472.1 13,568 19,176 2.3 12,743 18,011 30,111 40,619
United States 296.4 331.2 12,376 19,904 3.2 12,376 19,904 41,754 60,097
World 6,128.1 7,462.1 44,309 75,001 3.6 54,976 93,057 7,230 10,051
GDP = gross domestic product, PPP = purchasing power parity.
Note: “Integrating Asia” and “World” rows are not totals of columns above them.
Sources: Asian Development Bank staff projections based on International Comparison Program data from ADB 2007c.
Available: http://www.adb.org (accessed March 2008); and World Bank various years. World Development Indicators. Available: http://www.
worldbank.org (accessed March 2008).
torrid pace of their recent growth is more debatable. While the
investment firm Goldman Sachs expects the PRC to continue to grow
by 10% annually and India by 9% annually, most other forecasters
expect growth to moderate. The Japan Center for Economic Research,
for instance, projects annual growth of 6% in the PRC and 5% in India.
Projections by ADB (2007c) fall in between (Table 2.1). According to
these projections, Asia’s share of world output and income will expand
from 28% in 2005 to 35% in 2020 in purchasing power parity (PPP)
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
39
terms, even though Japan’s output is projected to grow by under 2%
annually. By 2020, Asia’s GDP (PPP—terms) is set to be more than
60% larger than the EU’s or North America’s. The PRC would account
for much of this gain: its share of world output is expected to rise
from 10% to 15%. At market prices, these increases are less dramatic
but still very substantial.10
Asia’s average per capita income would rise from some $3,000
in 2005 to about $5,000 (in 2005 dollars) in 2020, a level roughly
equivalent to Malaysia’s today. Per capita incomes would more than
double in some countries, including the PRC, but would still fall far
short of those in the world’s wealthiest economies. Clearly, rapid
income growth will remain a high priority for Asian countries in the
foreseeable future.
These trends also suggest that regional integration will become
increasingly important for Asia’s growth. On the demand side, Asia
will benefit from its own expanding spending power. On the supply
side, its productivity will be enhanced by the advantages of its larger,
more integrated economy. Asia’s economic scale will offer exceptional
opportunities for efficient production, including opportunities for
production networks to connect varied cost-saving locations.
The wide-ranging implications of Asian growth are explored in
subsequent chapters. Trade and financial activities are of particular
interest because these sectors usually expand faster than output.
Since trade and finance are also key drivers of regional integration,
their continued development will increase interdependence. And
because the region’s growth and integration feed on each other,
opportunities for cooperation should continue to expand rapidly, not
just on regional issues but also with respect to the region’s role in the
world economy.
2.2.	The rise of regionalism
Regionalism is multidimensional—it encompasses deepening
interdependence in various spheres of economic activity, widening
cooperative efforts, and a growing commitment to international
collaboration. How is regional integration progressing in different
areas? Which countries are participating most actively? Which
10 The long-term projections were prepared by Asian Development Bank (ADB)
staff in 2006 as background for strategic analysis. They have been adjusted to
take account of new purchasing power parity (PPP) estimates (ADB 2007f). The
underlying growth rates lie within a fairly broad range of estimates recently
published by private and public research organizations.
Emerging Asian Regionalism
40
10
30
50
70
1955 1965 1975 1985 1995 2005
Percent
Integrating Asia North America European Union
Notes:
European Union includes all 25 members as of 2005.
Integrating Asia includes Brunei Darussalam; Cambodia; People’s Republic of China;
Hong Kong, China; India; Indonesia; Japan; Republic of Korea; Lao People’s Democratic
Republic; Malaysia; Myanmar; Philippines; Singapore; Taipei,China; Thailand; and Viet Nam.
The intraregional trade share is defined as: (Xii + Mii) / (Xi
. + Mi
.) where Xii is exports of
region i to region i; Mii is imports of region i from region i; Xi . is total exports of region i;
and Mi . is total imports of region i.
Source: Data from IMF various years. Direction of Trade Statistics. Available: http://www.
imf.org (accessed October 2007).
Figure 2.5. Increasing intraregional trade shares
Long-term trend: 1955–2005
represent the region’s strongest links to external markets? The
evolution of Asian regionalism can be assessed on a wide range of
measures, but each confirms a remarkable coming together of diverse
economies.
Measuring interdependence
The most common measure of interdependence—the share of a
region’s total trade conducted within it—has risen in Asia from around
a fifth in the aftermath of World War II to a third or so in the 1980s,
and to over half in recent years (Figure 2.5). Asia is now broadly as
interdependent in trade as the EU and North America each is. Indeed,
Asia now trades more with itself than either the EU or North America
did at the outset of their integration efforts.
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
41
Notes:
European Union includes all 25 members as of 2005.
Integrating Asia includes Brunei Darussalam; Cambodia; People’s Republic of China;
Hong Kong, China; India; Indonesia; Japan; Republic of Korea; Lao People’s Democratic
Republic; Malaysia; Myanmar; Philippines; Singapore; Taipei,China; Thailand; and Viet Nam.
Intraregional trade intensity is defined as: [(Xii+Mii) / (Xi
.+Mi
.)] / [(X.i
+M.i
) / (X..+M..)]
where Xii is exports of region i to region i; Mii is imports of region i from region i; Xi
. is total
exports of region i; Mi
. is total imports of region i; X.i
 is total exports of region i to the world;
M.i
 is total imports of the region to the world; X.. is total world exports; and M.. is total
world imports.
Source: Data from IMF various years. Direction of Trade Statistics. Available: http://www.
imf.org (accessed October 2007).
1955 1965 1975 1985 1995 2005
Trade intensity index
Integrating Asia North America European Union
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
Figure 2.6. Adjusting intraregional trade intensities
Long-term trend: 1955–2005
A more demanding indicator of interdependence—the intensity
of regional trade or the region’s bias for trading with regional
partners11—is plotted in Figure 2.6. Unlike the share of intraregional
trade, the intensity indicator does not rise just because the region’s
weight is increasing in the world economy; it rises only if the share
of a region’s trade with itself rises more rapidly than its share of
world markets. The regional intensity of trade started out high in the
aftermath of World War II. While Asian economies were too small to
trade much, they traded disproportionately with their neighbors;
Asia’s trade with Asian partners was around 4½ times as large as its
trade with similarly-sized partners outside the region. This bias then
11 The index is calculated by dividing the share of intraregional trade in its overall
trade by the share of its trade in global trade.
Emerging Asian Regionalism
42
declined until well into the 1990s, as Asian countries successfully
penetrated markets around the world and acquired the means to
import from them. Since about the time of the crisis, however, the
regional intensity of Asia’s trade has also begun to rise.
A still broader measure of interdependence needs to include
other important channels such as direct investment, financial flows,
macroeconomic links, and personal contacts (Chua 2004). To this end,
data on six indicators of Asian economic integration were collected
for each Asian economy before and after the crisis. These provide
insight into Asia’s integration by country and channel—a summary of
the dimensions of regional relationships that will be explored in later
chapters.
As with any summary measure, this evidence needs to be
interpreted cautiously. Proxies for complex processes may be
oversimplified; for example, the trade-policy-cooperation indicator
does not capture the depth or significance of trade agreements nor
the variety of other cooperative policies. And, of course, statistical
correlations—used as indicators of co-movements in output growth
rates and equity returns—could reflect common reactions to global
forces rather than regional relationships.
Results for the six indicators, averaged across Integrating Asia,
are presented in Figure 2.7. In analyzing these results, one should
bear in mind that regional integration is not an inevitable outcome
of economic development. Indeed, the extent of regional integration
suggested by Figure 2.7 is somewhat surprising, given the importance
of globalization as a contemporary trend. Rapidly developing
economies—especially large or highly specialized ones—require,
and usually develop, strong global connections. In addition, declining
trade barriers, falling transport and communication costs, and the
harmonization of world business practices could be expected to tilt
the balance toward distant (global) rather than nearby (regional) ties.
Yet this does not appear to be the case; on average across Integrating
Asia, all six indicators have increased from the pre- to the post-crisis
period. The likely explanation is that the region’s exceptional growth
and its network-based production systems, as well as the investment
and labor flows associated with these, have increased the relative
importance of regional relationships. 12
12 Regional integration is not confined to Asia. Although technological change
is supposedly making the world “flatter,” around the world regional trade flows
are increasing more rapidly than extraregional ones (Mansfield and Milner 1999,
Ravenhill 2003).
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
43
Figure 2.7. Advancing integration: regional indicators, pre- and post-crisis
0.0
0.2
0.8
1.0
0.4
0.6
Trade policy cooperation
0.43 0.65
Tourism
Intraregional trade
Foreign direct investment
Equity markets
Macroeconomic links
0.61 0.65
0.35 0.52
0.52 0.72
0.27 0.53
0.07 0.54
Notes:
Data are calculated for the 16 integrating Asian economies, except as noted below.
Trade policy cooperation: Density of free trade agreements among integrating Asian economies (share of pair-wise trade relations that are under
a free trade agreement, with a weighting of 1.0 for concluded agreements, 0.5 for agreements under negotiations, 0.25 for agreements under
study)—precrisis, until 1997; post-crisis: 1998–2007)
Foreign direct investment: Intraregional foreign direct investment share among integrating Asian economies—precrisis, 1982–1996; post-crisis,
1999–2002.
Equity markets: Correlation of detrended quarterly equity price changes, with simple average for integrating Asian economies—precrisis,
1990:Q2–1996:Q4; post-crisis, 2000:Q1–2007:Q2. Data not available for India and Viet Nam.
Macroeconomic links: Correlation of detrended quarterly growth rates of gross domestic product, with a simple average for integrating Asian
economies—precrisis, 1988–1996; post-crisis, 1999–2007. Data not available for India and Viet Nam.
Intraregional trade: Intraregional trade share—precrisis, 1980–1996 average; post-crisis, 2000–2006 average.
Tourism: Share of intraregional tourist inflows and outflows—precrisis, 1994–1995 average; post-crisis, 2004–2005 average.
Sources of data:
Trade policy cooperation: Asian Regional Integration Center. FTA Database. Available: http://aric.adb.org (accessed February 2008).
Foreign direct investment: UNCTAD. FDI Statistics. Available: http://www.unctad.org (accessed February 2008).
Equity markets: Asian Development Bank staff elaborations from Bloomberg data.
Macroeconomic links: Oxford Economics 2008. Forecasting and Analysis. Available: http://www.oef.com/OE_FA_Int_Mac.asp (accessed February
2008); and Bureau of Economic Analysis, United States, 2008. National Income Accounts. Available: http://www.bea.gov/national/index.htm
Intraregional trade: International Monetary Fund various years. Direction of Trade Statistics. Available: http://www.imf.org (accessed February
2008).
Tourism: United Nations World Tourism Organization. Various years. Yearbook of Tourism Statistics. Available: http://www.un.wto.org/
(accessed February 2008).
Precrisis Post-crisis
Emerging Asian Regionalism
44
Which areas of interdependence have been strengthened the
most? Figure 2.7 shows all interactions deepening, but does not
provide a basis for comparing changes across indicators. To help
judge how an indicator has changed over time and the extent to
which it differs across economies, it is useful to “normalize” the
indicator, that is, to assess its changes relative to the benchmark
of typical economy-to-economy variations in the region. The
normalized indicators (as defined and presented in Figure 2.8) show
the deviations of the indicators from their long-term, region-wide
averages, expressed in units of standard deviation. For example, Hong
Kong, China conducted 66% of its trade with intraregional partners in
the post-crisis period compared with a long-term average of 46% for
all Asian economies, with a standard deviation of 10%. Thus, Hong
Kong, China’s normalized, post-crisis regional trade indicator is +2,
because its measure of trade interdependence exceeded the regional
mean by two standard deviations. In most cases, the normalized
indicators show substantial increases between the pre- and
post-crisis periods, suggesting broad, rising integration across the
region.
Among the six indicators, equity co-movements—the
correlation of an economy’s equity returns with the region’s—show
the most significant increases between the pre- and post-crisis
periods; increasing by a full standard deviation on average. Output
co-movements increased nearly as much. The indicators for
intraregional trade and trade policy cooperation also rose, but
typically by only a half standard deviation. The intraregional FDI and
tourist indicators increased least significantly, perhaps because they
were already high before the crisis. Importantly, all six indicators
show positive movements over time.
How has regional integration differed across Asian economies?
To make such general comparisons possible, the six normalized
integration indicators were further combined into an “aggregate
integration index” (AII), defined and presented in Figure 2.9. The AII is
built from highly eclectic components, and so gives an impressionistic,
rather than a theory-based, view of integration. Even so, it provides
insight into how each economy is linked to Integrating Asia and how
its links have changed over time.13 Particularly high positive AII values
are evident for the ASEAN economies and Hong Kong, China in the
post-crisis period. Broadly, their underlying measures of integration
13 This is expected; the perception that integration was well under way became the
basis for selecting economies included in Integrating Asia.
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
45
0.1
0.3
0.5
0.7
0.9
1.1
1.3
Tourism Foreign direct
investment
Trade policy
cooperation
Intraregional
trade
Macroeconomic
links
Equity
markets
Index (standard deviation)
Figure 2.8. Rising relative indicators of integration by channel
Average change in relative indicators from pre- to post-crisis
Note: The figure shows the average pre- to post-crisis change in Asia for “relative integration
indicators.” The relative indicators are derived from the original indicators defined in Figure
2.7 using the transformation: x’ijt = (xijt – Ai
)/si
, where xijt is the value of indicator i in economy
j at time t, Ai is the average of the i
th indicator xijt over all j and t, and si
 is the standard
deviation of the i
th indicator over all j and t. See Figure 2.7 for definition of indicators and
data sources.
Source: Asian Development Bank staff elaboration of data in Figure 2.7.
were roughly equal to long-term regional averages before the crisis,
but were typically one-half or more standard deviations above these
averages after the crisis. The AII values are in some cases negative in
the precrisis period for the region’s largest economies (the PRC, the
Republic of Korea, and Japan), indicating that the regional ties of these
economies were not as strong as those of other Asian economies—
presumably reflecting their relatively strong global connections.
India has the lowest AII—understandably, since Integrating Asia so
far consists mainly of East Asian economies. But in every economy in
the region, including the large ones, the AII has increased over time.
How markets drive integration
Regional integration in Asia is partly a result of the region’s rapid
growth and increasing weight in the world economy. But, as we have
seen, regional relationships are also becoming more intense than
growth by itself would explain. Asia is not alone in displaying such an
increasing regional bias; technology and policy seem to be generating
new opportunities for regional integration, even in the context of a
rapidly globalizing world economy.
The key technological explanation—the development of
production networks, often also described as “production
Emerging Asian Regionalism
46
Figure 2.9. Rising indicators of Asian integration by economy
Average aggregate integration index (AII), pre- and post-crisis
PRC=People’s Republic of China; HKG=Hong Kong, China; IND=India; INO=Indonesia; JPN=Japan; KOR=Republic of Korea; MAL=Malaysia;
PHI=Philippines; SIN=Singapore; TAP=Taipei,China; THA=Thailand; VIE=Viet Nam.
Notes: See Figure 2.7 for definition of indicators and data sources.
The aggregate integration index (AII) is the average of the six integration indicators (see Figure 2.7) calculated for each Asian economy.
Source: Asian Development Bank staff elaboration of data in Figure 2.7. Index (standard deviation)
-2.5
-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
IND JPN TAP PRC KOR INO THA MAL SIN VIE HKG PHI
precrisis post-crisis
fragmentation”—is the result of advances in information technology,
falling trade barriers, and declining transport costs. These
developments have made it possible to allocate various steps of a
manufacturing production process to sites in different countries
(Athukorala and Yamashita 2005, Ando 2006, ). Although these trends
could, and to some extent do, lead to a broad, global dispersion
of production, in any one industry they appear to favor links with
nearby countries more strongly than with those further away. This
empirical finding is somewhat surprising. It appears that no matter
how good electronic coordination is, it needs to be supplemented
with personal interactions and networks, which are much less costly
to conduct among nearby sites than among far-flung ones. And even
electronics-based coordination—such as transactions in financial
markets and other services—is simpler within similar time zones,
and among people who meet face-to-face periodically.
Such regional relationships tend to reinforce each other over
time. For example, dense regional economic connections increase the
return on the transport and communications investments that support
them. Investments in “soft” infrastructure—such as familiarity with
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
47
business conditions, practices, and customs in foreign markets—also
bring higher returns in integrated regions. As investments accumulate
in such supporting functions, doing business in a regional setting
becomes even more attractive. Although trade theory has little to
say about the pattern of regional relationships (beyond identifying
transport costs as a determinant), they tend to be stable, suggesting
that they depend on significant fixed investments.
Given its relatively recent emergence as a major trading power, the
PRC’s relations with the rest of Asia are not yet as intensely developed
as the region’s more established partnerships. Indeed, the PRC is
still strengthening its economic ties to other parts of the world, and
the intensity of its regional trade links is, for now, declining relative
to its international connections. Even so, as the hub of production
networks that involve components manufactured throughout East
Asia (Athukorala 2007b), the PRC has become a major force driving
regional integration. Its trade with the region now accounts for half of
trade within Asia, up from 29% in 1996.14 And, as noted, the PRC and
India are also shaping regional integration by encouraging smaller
economies to combine their markets in order to achieve competitive
scale.
How policy makers are responding
Asia’s deepening connections are beginning to be reinforced by
policy. Until recently, formal economic cooperation among Asian
governments lagged behind market-driven integration. This is
consistent with the region’s cautious policy making style, but it has
also reflected Asian trade patterns; in the past, the region’s most
important economic partners have been outside Asia. As this is
changing, so are the region’s policy priorities.
Asia’s earliest regional organizations emerged within the United
Nations network—such as the United Nations Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) and the Mekong River
Commission—as well as in the security framework of the Cold
War, notably the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO). ADB
was established in 1967. More recently, the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation (APEC) embraced economies within and outside the
region. The longest-standing wholly regional grouping is ASEAN,
14 Based on IMF 2007b. If transactions among the People’s Repubic of China (PRC);
Hong Kong, China; Macao, China; and Taipei,China are excluded from East Asian
trade because they resemble intra-economy rather than intraregional transactions,
this group of economies was involved in 39% of all intra-East Asian trade.
Emerging Asian Regionalism
48
which has become a crucial element of the region’s emerging policy
architecture.
The structure of regional cooperation has since expanded to a
rich network of forums with overlapping memberships (discussed
later in Chapter 7, see Table A7.1). Some (for example, the Central Asia
Regional Economic Cooperation [CAREC]) have focused on the special
requirements of geographical subregions, such as infrastructure for
facilitating energy and transport flows. Some (for example, ASEAN)
seek to transform their economies into a “single market” through
policies that affect many sectors of the economy. Some (for example,
ASEAN+3 [ASEAN countries plus the PRC, Japan, and the Republic
of Korea]) have addressed functional areas of integration, such as
bond market development and reserve pooling. Others (for example,
APEC) have been most effective in facilitating trade and investment
and reducing regulatory barriers among markets. In other words, the
region’s cooperative mechanisms are evolving on multiple tracks and
are gradually developing unique comparative advantages.
ASEAN countries have been at the forefront of Asian regionalism,
individually and collectively. The ASEAN framework provides an
advanced model of international cooperation and a framework for
exploring new integration strategies (Chapter 3 provides a fuller
discussion). ASEAN has also been active in expanding the scope
of regional cooperation, initially through relations with dialogue
partners, beginning with Japan in 1973 and now including Australia,
Canada, the PRC, the EU, India, Republic of Korea, New Zealand,
Russian Federation, and the US. More recently, ASEAN invited the
PRC, Japan, and the Republic of Korea to develop the ASEAN+3
group, and, at its 1998 summit, set up the East Asian Vision Group
to make the case for “East Asia moving from a region of nations to a
bona fide regional community where collective efforts are made for
peace, prosperity, and progress” (East Asian Vision Group 2001). An
ambitious agenda for cooperation is emerging from this process, as
discussed in the following section.
Alongside regional integration, Asia is witnessing a wave of
bilateral and smaller plurilateral cooperation initiatives. As of
December 2007, 44 such agreements had been signed involving one or
more economies in Integrating Asia (nearly all were signed since the
crisis); 90 more are under study or negotiation. The agreements vary
widely in objectives, partners, and trade coverage—some are limited
in scope, others go well beyond WTO coverage in terms of sectors
and issues addressed. As Chapter 3 will discuss, the proliferation
of these agreements could lead to an inconsistent “noodle bowl” of
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
49
narrow agreements or could establish—with regional leadership—the
foundations for substantially larger gains from a consolidated, regionwide free trade system.
The political context is favorable. Since the crisis, governments
throughout the region have responded through broad commitments
to work together, as well as through specific initiatives. Although
differences in ambitions and viewpoints remain, Asia is mostly at
peace and cooperates on common security threats, while its historical
divides are gradually being reconciled. Of course, Asia’s larger
economies remain cautious about regional integration and have large
stakes in maintaining healthy relations with global markets. They
have emphasized that they are seeking an open regional community
and continue to develop economic and political relationships outside
the region. For example, the Republic of Korea recently negotiated a
free trade agreement with the US, and Japan has expressed interest
in following suit. These varied interests will make it more challenging
to achieve consensus, but will also increase the likelihood that Asian
regionalism will make substantial contributions to both regional and
global welfare.
The positions of the PRC, India, Japan, and the Republic of Korea—
the region’s largest economies—will be particularly important, as will
ASEAN’s. All are committed to an active role. Many observers were
surprised when the PRC accepted an invitation to join the 2001 ASEAN
meetings, and by its rapid engagement in a process to establish a free
trade area with ASEAN (Ren 2007). The PRC’s premier, Wen Jiabao,
stated:
China’s future is inextricably linked to that of other East
Asian countries. Stability and prosperity in East Asia provide
an important guarantee for China’s development, and China’s
development also offers opportunities to other East Asian
countries. … We will continue to implement the opening-up
strategy based on mutual benefit, enhance economic and
technical cooperation with other countries, and strive for
common development in East Asia (Wen 2007).
India has likewise indicated a strong desire to integrate with East
Asia. As part of its “Look East” policy, India has joined the East Asian
Summit and has requested APEC membership. In the words of India’s
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh (2004):
[India] envision[s] an Asian Economic Community, which
encompasses ASEAN, China, Japan, Korea, and India. Such
a community would release enormous creative energies
Emerging Asian Regionalism
50
of our people. One cannot but be captivated by the vision
of an integrated market, spanning the distance from the
Himalayas to the Pacific Ocean, linked by efficient road, rail,
air and shipping services. This community of nations would
constitute an “arc of advantage,” across which there would be
large-scale movement of people, capital, ideas, and creativity.
Such a community would be roughly the size of the European
Union in terms of income, and bigger than NAFTA in terms of
trade. It would account for half the world’s population and it
would hold foreign exchange reserves exceeding those of the
EU and NAFTA put together. This is an idea whose time is fast
approaching, and we must be prepared for it collectively.
Yet Asian governments have been reluctant to undertake
commitments that may not last, or that restrict their autonomy.
They also want to ensure that the institutions that develop in Asia
complement their broad global objectives. The implications for the
architecture of regional cooperation are explored in Chapter 7.
2.3.	The emerging regional agenda
Asia’s growing interdependence presents a compelling case for regional
cooperation—to deliver regional public goods, manage regional
externalities, and help coordinate policies within the region, as well
as acting together to ensure an open global economic environment.
A first effort to define such a regional agenda was undertaken by the
East Asian Study Group (EASG), established in 2001 by the ASEAN+3
process. The EASG’s recommendations, summarized in Table 2.2,
include institutional developments—one of which, the establishment
of the East Asian Summit (EAS), was implemented in 2004—as well as
specific proposals on trade, investment, and financial cooperation.15
This study will assess the progress made on these issues as well as
prospects for future cooperation. On the whole, the EASG’s proposals
provide a timely, thoughtful road map for cooperation.
The subsequent chapters of this report explore the progress
and policy options in five areas of regional links: (1) production, (2)
financial markets, (3) macroeconomics, (4) social and environmental
issues, and (5) cooperation. In the following pages, questions that
will motivate this analysis are briefly examined.
15 The East Asian Summit’s membership includes, in addition to ASEAN+3,
Australia, India, and New Zealand.
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
51
Short-term measures
• Form an East Asia Business Council.
• Establish Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) status and preferential treatment for the least developed
countries.
• Foster an attractive investment environment for increased foreign direct investment.
• Establish an East Asian Investment Information Network.
• Develop resources and infrastructure jointly for growth areas and expand financial resources for development with the
active participation of the private sector.
• Provide assistance and cooperation in four priority areas: infrastructure, information technology, human resources
development, and ASEAN regional economic integration.
• Cooperate through technology transfers and joint technology development.
• Develop information technology jointly to build telecommunications infrastructure and to provide greater access to the
Internet.
• Build a network of East Asian think tanks.
• Establish an East Asia Forum.
• Implement a comprehensive human resources development program for East Asia.
• Establish poverty alleviation programs.
• Take concerted steps to provide access to primary health care for the people.
• Strengthen mechanisms for cooperation on nontraditional security issues.
• Work together with cultural and educational institutions to promote a strong sense of identity and an East Asian
consciousness.
• Promote networking and exchanges of experts in the conservation of the arts, artifacts, and cultural heritage of East
Asian countries.
• Promote East Asian studies in the region.
Medium- and long-term measures, and those that require further studies
• Form an East Asian Free Trade Area.
• Promote investment by small and medium enterprises.
• Establish an East Asia Investment Area by expanding the ASEAN Investment Area.
• Establish a regional financing facility.
• Pursue a more closely coordinated regional exchange rate mechanism.
• Pursue the evolution of the ASEAN+3 Summit into an East Asian Summit.
• Promote closer regional marine environmental cooperation for the entire region.
• Build a framework for energy policies and strategies, and action plans.
• Work closely with nongovernment organizations in policy consultation and coordination to encourage civic participation
and state-civil society partnerships in tackling social problems.
Table 2.2. Recommendations of the East Asia Study Group (2001)
For the creation of an East Asian Economic Community
ASEAN = Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
Source: Asian Development Bank.
Emerging Asian Regionalism
52
Production
Access to markets, in the region and beyond, is critical to Asia and
thus a high priority on the regional agenda. In low-income economies,
trade facilitates the movement of workers into high-productivity
jobs; in middle- and higher income countries, it provides incentives
for innovation and productivity. Regional cooperation can strengthen
Asia’s trade by creating vast regional markets, building a seamless
production base that makes the region even more competitive in the
world economy, and enhancing Asia’s role and bargaining position in
global economic policy.
Which initiatives could further integrate Asian production? How
could regional integration reinforce Asia’s stake in global trade and
investment flows? As we have noted, with multilateral liberalization
efforts at an impasse, Asian countries have concluded, or are
negotiating, numerous bilateral trade agreements. Policy makers need
to address the challenge posed by these independent initiatives—and
ultimately shape what might otherwise become a tangled “noodle
bowl” of agreements into a streamlined regional strategy. Chapter 3
will explore how the region could develop markets free of restrictions
on the cross-border flow of goods, services, and investment while
helping to strengthen the global trading system.
Financial markets
Since the crisis, Asian financial systems have improved dramatically.
They have shaken off nonperforming loans and low capitalization
levels, developed stronger supervision, and expanded equity
and bond markets. Nevertheless, the financial systems of several
important Asian economies are still dominated by banks; their
regulatory systems remain patchy; and their international flows,
to the extent that they are liberalized, are mainly intermediated by
financial centers outside the region. Building safer, deeper, and more
integrated financial markets remains a high priority for Asia.
What role can the region play in strengthening and integrating Asian
financial markets? Is there merit in deepening the Asian Bond Markets
Initiative and building regional payments and clearing systems?
Should regional forums target the harmonization of regulations or
the adoption of standards that permit mutual recognition of financial
institutions? These questions will be addressed in Chapter 4, in the
context of building an integrated regional financial market.
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
53
Macroeconomics
Interdependence generates spillover and enhances the need for
cooperation (Kuroda and Kawai 2002). Some experts argue that Asia is
in fact “decoupling” from the world economy. Whatever the eventual
outcome, for now, Asia clearly has a significant role in shaping global
economic activity and especially regional activity, and this role will
increase with the region’s growth and wealth. Policy makers need new,
more sophisticated tools to monitor regional economic developments
and set policies that will dampen economic fluctuations and exchange
rate volatility.
Which instruments are needed to manage interdependence—to
monitor economic performance and to coordinate policy? If crises
arise, will the region be prepared to fight them—for example, with
the tools of the Chiang Mai Initiative? Which alternatives to holding
large national foreign exchange reserves could it develop? Longstanding global imbalances pose additional challenges; indeed, the
falling US dollar and the unfolding credit crisis may be signaling that
the resolution of the imbalances has begun. Could regional initiatives
help to manage the adjustments required—for example, by easing
Asia’s transition from exporting to markets outside the region to
producing more for regional consumption and investment? Chapter 5
will examine policies designed to reduce the region’s vulnerability to
regional as well as external shocks.
Social and environmental issues
As well as driving Asian dynamism, regional cooperation could
help ensure that its benefits are sustainable and widely shared.
In countries where public finances are tight, governments seek
targeted ways to reduce poverty, decrease income disparities, and
address environmental concerns—and regional markets and policy
experience offer solutions. Asian economic growth is arguably the
most powerful engine ever devised for social progress. In the PRC
alone, 500 million people have escaped extreme poverty during
the past 30 years. But the remaining challenges are daunting; they
include significant pockets of poverty, widening income disparities
within several economies, patchy social safety nets, rapidly ageing
populations, and widespread environmental degradation.
Which policies could connect poorer populations more directly
to the region’s dynamic growth processes? Could the region increase
flows of workers among countries—and improve social support for
them where they work—in order to distribute the fruits of regional
Emerging Asian Regionalism
54
progress more broadly? Should it develop mechanisms that provide
technical, financial, and political support for national environmental
policies? Should it attempt to mobilize region-wide political support
for its best practice social policies? These questions are explored
in Chapter 6, in the context of developing a regional social and
environmental agenda for shared prosperity.
Cooperation
Marshaling collective efforts across Asia’s vast, diverse economies
is a huge challenge. The examples of the EU and, to a lesser extent,
NAFTA offer insight, but Asia’s economics, politics, and history are
different—and call for new, distinctive solutions. Asian institutional
development will likely remain pragmatic and gradual, and the region’s
policy architecture will likely feature multitrack and multispeed
solutions. But as this architecture evolves, many questions will need
to be addressed. What are the comparative advantages of different
cooperative forums? To what extent should they compete or be
consolidated? Which formal institutions will need to emerge to make
them effective? These questions will be explored in Chapter 7.
The logic for Asian economic cooperation is powerful. The
region is already highly integrated, and its governments are aware
of their common interests and obligations. Increasingly, they are
working together. Asia has returned to stability and growth, and
goals that seemed daunting a few years ago—the elimination of
systematic poverty and the absorption of large masses of people into
a prosperous middle class—are within reach. To be sure, important
problems remain, and regional cooperation will require complex
and delicate decisions. But Asia has begun the search for common
solutions to its shared challenges. This report sets out why and how.
Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope
55
Lessons from the crisis
The crisis offers valuable lessons on the vulnerabilities that can lead to
crises, approaches to manage them, and institutions and policies that
become necessary in their aftermath (for example, World Bank 1998).
Sources of vulnerability
The crisis highlighted the risks of maintaining pegged exchange
rates with open capital accounts. In the absence of very large foreign
exchange reserves, even modest macroeconomic imbalances can
become destabilizing. In some affected countries, these problems
were exacerbated by the inadequate supervision of deregulated
financial institutions, which led, among other outcomes, to a severe
“double mismatch” problem of funding long-term domestic projects
with short-term foreign currency loans.
Policy responses
Managing an international crisis requires timely, well-structured
support from the international community. In retrospect, early
efforts to contain the crisis may have involved excessively
deflationary macroeconomic policies and rushed efforts to
address long-term structural problems through measures (such
as bank closures) that contributed to the loss of confidence.
Crisis resolution mechanisms
Economies confronted with a crisis need strong mechanisms to speed
resolution and minimize impact. An essential “economic security
framework” needs to provide safety nets for individuals as well as
mechanisms to help corporations survive temporary financial stress,
such as institutions to protect viable firms from losing access to
credit, resolve impaired loans, and recapitalize banks.
These lessons suggest a range of recommendations for policies
at the national, regional, and global levels (Table B2.1).
Chapter 2: appendix
Emerging Asian Regionalism
56
IMF = International Monetary Fund.
Source: Based on Kawai 2007b.
Table A2.1. Policy recommendations derived from the Asian financial crisis
National measures Regional measures Global measures
Preventing or reducing the risk of crises
Adopt sound macroeconomic management
Pursue noninflationary monetary policy
Pursue sound fiscal policy
Limit public debt
Limit current account deficits
Maintain data transparency
Strengthen regional policy dialogue
Maintain early warning system
Strengthen IMF surveillance and policy
advice
Strengthen private-sector monitoring
(rating agencies)
Adopt sustainable exchange rate regime
Adopt viable exchange rate regime
Ensure consistency between exchange rate regime and
macroeconomic policy
Strengthen regional exchange rate
coordination
Manage risk in the national balance sheet
Maintain adequate foreign exchange reserves
Monitor short-term capital flows
Liberalize capital account cautiously
Monitor short-term capital flows and
remove regulatory biases that favor
short-term external lending
Monitor short-term capital flows and
remove regulatory biases that favor
short-term external lending
Manage risk in the financial and corporate sectors
Strengthen financial regulation and supervision
Improve disclosure and information transparency
Strengthen governance in financial and corporate sectors
Develop capital markets
Help develop regional capital markets
Support international standards and
codes in regulation and supervision
Support best practice governance
Strengthen financial sector monitoring
Implement international standards and
codes
Support best practice governance
Managing crises effectively
Mobilize timely and adequate external liquidity
Adopt consistent policy packages
Minimize moral hazard
Establish regional liquidity support Expand and accelerate IMF liquidity
support
Tailor macroeconomic and structural policies to crisis specifics
Tailor monetary and fiscal policies to specifics of the
crisis and the economy
Strengthen regional capacity to advise
on adjustment
Streamline IMF conditionality on
macroeconomic and structural policies
Bail-in private international investors
Impose official standstills
If necessary, impose private sector involvement
Establish international rules for private
sector involvement
Establish international rules for private
sector involvement
Resolving the systemic consequences of crises
Resolve impaired bank assets and corporate liabilities
Establish procedures for bank exits and recapitalization
Establish procedures for corporate workouts
Include insolvency clauses in debt issues
Help finance bank and corporate
restructuring
Establish international procedures for the
resolution of non governmental debt
Help finance bank and corporate
restructuring
Support vulnerable groups through social sector policies
Strengthen safety nets and support hard-hit populations Provide support to finance social sector
programs
Provide support to finance social sector
programs
Lesson 9 Asian Regionalism    Regionalism defined  Regionalism is a  functional  relation  that  bundles multiple nations  with political, economic and  cultural inheritance, often based on the geographical advantage. It is a political ideology that favors a specific region over  a  greater  area.  Regionalism  emphasizes  on  developing  the  administrative  power  and  swaying  the available or some inhabitants of a region. It usually results due to political separations, religious geography, cultural boundaries, linguistic regions, and managerial decisions.    Asian Regionalism   Asian regionalism focuses on the relationship between ideas and politics and examines rapid growth of Asia’s economy,  financial  stability  and  regional  economic integration.  Asia’s  development  has  had  a  massive, positive  impact  on  people’s  lives.  Most  Asian economies have made remarkable progress in reducing poverty.  Regional  integration  fosters  inclusive development. Governments need to connect the poor to the  thriving  regional  economy  by  eliminating  labor market barriers, investing in workers’ capabilities, and building infrastructure to connect disadvantaged regions with economic centers.  Three (3) Factors Leading to greater integration  The three (3) factors leading to greater integration of the Asian region are as follows: 1. Trade. In ancient times, regions of Asia had commercial relations among themselves as well as with parts of Europe and Africa. Nomadic peoples traded over considerable distances using “barter” as the medium of exchange. Ancient people were so honest and truthful, as no businessman was aggrieved and defrauded. 2. Similar Culture. The culture of Asia is diverse but they do share many things. This makes it an easier fit during times of negotiations. 3. Common Goals. The Asian region recognize the mutual benefits of a slow integration.  Significance of Regionalism  The following are considered as significant ingredients of regionalism: 1. Common sense of identity. 2. Combines creation and implementation of institution. 3. Shape a collective action within a geographical region.  ASEAN- the Association of South East Asian Nations  www.thejakartapost.com/academia/2017/02/03/the-united-states-non-stop-pivot-to-asia.html 
The  Association  of  South  East  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  is  a  regional  grouping  founded  to  promote accelerated economic growth, facilitate social progress and cultural development, pursue regional peace in the Southeast Asian region through multilateral cooperation. ASEAN was founded on August 8, 1968. Its original members are Indonesia, Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, and Singapore. Curently it has ten (10) members  which  included:  Vietnam,  Myanmar,  Brunei  Darrusalam,  Laos,  and  Timor  Leste.  Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) has been formed which included mutual agreement with the United States, China, Japan, and South Korea.    APEC- Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation  Asia  Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  (APEC)  was  institutionalized  with  the  goal  of  monitoring  and analyzing regional markers and institutes as well as governing rules and norms for facilitating transparent and effective business transactions. It operates on the basis of non-binding commitments, open dialogue and equal respect for views of all participating economies. APEC was founded in 1989 consisting of 21 member-states.  It  is  established  to  eliminate  trade  and  investment  barriers  in  Asia  Pacific  region.  Its secretariat was based in Singapore and operates as the core support mechanism for the APEC. Thirty (30%) percent of the world population is covered by APEC economies. It remains as a regional economic forum to leverage the growing interdependence of Asia Pacific.  

[Music]

hello my dear students

how are you doing today it is good to

have you for today's discussion

as we begin to explore another lesson

with your subject the contemporary world

for our topic today we are to talk about

asian regionalism after watching this

video

you should be able to define

asian regionalism differentiate

regionalization from globalization

and analyze how different asian states

confront the challenges of

regionalization

and globalization as we begin

let us define and understand the

following kit terms

that are associated with asian

regionalism

number one regionalization

regionalization is the process of

dividing an

area into smaller segments called

regions

as we all know the world is divided

into not just continents but also

regions number two regions

regions are groups of countries located

in the same geographical area

for example japan china

indonesia and the philippines are

located within the geographical

area of asia which is a region

aside from being the largest and most

diverse continent

in the world among asia

the other eight official recognized

regions of the world

are africa the caribbean

central america europe

north america oceania

and the south america number three

regionalism regionalism is defined as a

political ideology

that favors a specific region over a

greater

area meaning to say

it mostly focuses on regions since they

are

smaller compared to larger areas

because of this regionalism usually

resolves to

political separations religious

geography

cultural boundaries linguistic regions

and managerial divisions

but why do countries form regional

organization

they form regional organization as a way

of coping with the challenges

of globalization but what is

globalization

globalization is a process by which

people are unified

into a single society and function

together

it is the process by which businesses

or other organizations develop

international

influence or start operating

on an international scale

what are the differences of

regionalization

and globalization in nature

globalization promoted integration of

economies

across state borders all around the

world

while regionalization divides an

area into smaller regions

in market globalization allows

many corporations to trade on

international level

it also allows free market

what is a free market

a free market is an unregulated system

of economic exchange that requires no

tariffs or just minimal

we all know that a tariff is a

tax imposed by one country on the goods

and services

imported from another country

in regionalization monopolies are more

likely to develop

monopoly means one producer controls

supply of goods or services and where

the entry of new producers

is prevented or highly restricted

in cultural and societal relations

globalization accelerates

multiculturalism

through free and inexpensive movement of

people while regionalization does

not support multiculturalism

multiculturalism is the view that

cultures

races and ethnicities particularly those

of minority groups

deserve a special acknowledgement of

their differences

within a dominant political culture

it is a situation in which all the

different

cultural or racial groups in society

have equal rights and opportunities and

none is ignored or regarded as

unimportant

in aid globalized international

communities

are more willing to aid countries is

stricken by disasters

while in regionalization an area does

not get involved

in the affairs of other areas

in technological advances globalization

has driven great advances

in technology in regionalization

advanced technology is rarely available

in one country or region

just earlier i have asked you why

countries form regional associations

these countries form regional

associations

or organizations because of

number one military defense

the north atlantic treaty organization

or

nato was formed to protect europe

from the threat of the soviet union

and as a response the soviet union

created

the warsaw pact the warsaw pact

formerly known as the treaty of

friendship

cooperation and mutual assistance which

was

established as a balance of power

or counterweight to nato or the north

atlantic

treaty organization

number two countries form regional

associations because of economic crisis

the association of southeast asian

nations

along with china japan and south korea

established an emergency fund that

stabilized asian economies

after the rippling effect of the thai

economy's collapse

number three because of resources

countries form regional associations

because

of resources countries need to pull

their resources together to make

themselves more powerful

the organization of the petroleum

exporting countries

rose in power when they took over

domestic production

and controlled crude oil prices across

the globe

so those are the reasons why countries

form regional organizations

because of military defense economic

crisis

and resources it is their way

to cope up with the challenges of

globalization

as a conclusion asian regionalism

is the product of economic interaction

and not political planning

did you enjoy our lesson today

well i have enjoyed it too however

if you have any comments suggestions or

clarifications feel free to write them

in the comments down below

this has been mrs gloria p balinbi

your teacher for today


WORLD OF IDEAS

Do you prefer McDonald's over your traditional, local cuisine? That may well be the consequence of cultural globalisation. American fast-food restaurants, fashion brands and media outlets have conquered the world due to technological advances. Now, you may listen to world news from anywhere and at any time. This is the result of the emergence of global media.

We will go over the influence of global media on society and explore some of the key characteristics and consequences of cultural globalisation.
Then, we will explore the two main sociological perspectives on media globalisation.

Definition of media globalisation in sociology
First, let's explain what we mean by global media or media globalisation.

Media globalisation is the universal integration of media through the multicultural exchange of ideas.

While the term media refers to all sorts of print, electronic and digital means of communication, global media includes all forms of mass communication that reach every corner across the globe - television, newspapers, radio, and social media (Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, etc.).

Influence of global media on culture and society
To answer how globalisation has influenced media, we first need to understand what cultural globalisation and its importance are.

Cultural globalisation refers to the transformation and exchange of values, ideas, attitudes, and cultural products across the globe.

Sociologists argue that cultural globalisation affected many areas of life, media being only one of them.

Let's go over some of the key aspects of cultural globalisation: migration, food, sports and entertainment.

Migration and global media
Migration refers to the process of people moving from one place to another with the intention of living there.

It is a process that has been happening for several decades. Initially, people and their cultures were transported across borders by military conflicts, missionary services, and trade. With technological advancements - transportation and communication, for example - the process of cultural globalisation has drastically intensified. People now travel to new places for economic opportunities or to start a new life.

Food and global culture
The spread of different cultural cuisines throughout society is another obvious example of cultural globalisation. We can now find food and drink from all over the world in diverse, multiethnic cities without ever stepping into those countries.

However, this also means that fast-food giants have become increasingly popular and have reduced the prevalence of local foods and eating habits.

Ritzer points out that McDonald's has become one of the largest food chains in about 119 countries.

Sports and global media
Cultural globalisation has also led to the establishment of major international sporting events such as the World Cup and the Olympics. These events unite people together in a shared, global leisure experience.

Entertainment and global media
Television companies also market their shows, such as Big Brother and Who Wants To Be A Millionaire, to worldwide audiences. They are hosted and telecasted across international borders. More recently, online streaming services such as Netflix have made watching shows and films from all over the world accessible in almost every country.

Global media consumption
We will discuss how consumption patterns and the importance of audience consciousness have changed in the age of global media.

Consumption patterns
In contemporary society, one can have shared experiences in terms of consumption patterns in nearly every major city in the world, regardless of individual cultures. This means that aspects of lifestyle - fashion, mall culture, leisure parks, car ownership, tourism, etc. - can be similar in cities that are very far apart geographically, e.g. in the U.S. and Asia.

Global consciousness
Audiences everywhere are now closely connected to what is going on worldwide through news media, as significant events are displayed in real-time.

In Anthony Giddens’ opinion, this helps develop a ‘global outlook’, and people can identify with and relate to global audiences. He describes the process of creating a global identity as cosmopolitanism.

Think about TV news reporting of natural disasters in developing countries and how this influences people from developed countries to donate money to charity.

The Importance of global media: Consequences
Some of the major consequences of the globalisation of culture and the emergence of global media have been detraditionalisation and risk consciousness.

Detraditionalisation
Giddens suggests that detraditionalisation has its importance when it comes to the consequence of globalisation. This refers to the phenomenon of people actively questioning their traditional values - religious beliefs, marriage, gender roles, etc.

The fact that people doubt their traditional beliefs and ideas reflects the thought that cultures have or are becoming less stable, losing their predictability and untouchability as it was before globalisation. People in modern society are familiar with alternative ways of living, thinking, and doing things differently.

Risk consciousness
Ulrich Beck (1992) points out the importance of global risk consciousness due to shared experiences. Global problems like terrorism, national conflicts, nuclear wars, global warming, etc., threaten populations living in different countries worldwide.

A recent example is COVID-19, a global pandemic.

The consistent (often biased) media focus on such global issues has often caused widespread fear and apprehension around the globe. This has likely contributed to phenomena such as Brexit, which was somewhat based on anxieties about immigration.

However, from a positive perspective, increasing global movements and agencies have bound people together across borders to tackle pressing social issues.

Examples of global media culture: Theoretical perspectives
There are two primary theoretical perspectives on global media and culture: cultural imperialism and postmodernism.

Media in developing countries
Let us start by discussing what cultural imperialism means.

Cultural imperialism
The cultural imperialist perspective aligns with the neo-Marxist view and focuses on the negative effects of media globalisation.

According to cultural imperialists, globalisation through media is a process where American culture and values are imposed on other parts of the world. This is also known as Americanisation.

For example, the spread of Hollywood films, shows, sports, and advertisements.

Global Media, Photograph of hollywood sign on hill, StudySmarter
Fig. 2 - The popularity of Hollywood movies all over the world is a sign of Americanisation.

Cultural imperialists argue that the widespread nature of American culture might weaken local cultures and traditions in other countries. For instance, many people choose American fast foods, such as hot dogs and burgers, over their national/cultural dishes.

Another aspect that cultural imperialists consider is the negative political consequences of globalisation. People's lives are now saved as digital data, and with increasing data surveillance and tracking, political powers can use this data for corrupt purposes all over the world.

Global media: postmodernism
The postmodernist perspective considers media the central point of globalisation and focuses on the positive influences of media globalisation on society.

The globalisation of media has provided individuals with the opportunity to learn about diverse cultures across the world. This has helped them to reach beyond what is local and conventional and adapt to new cultures.

For example, access to more choices of clothes, accessories, films, TV shows, music, travel opportunities, etc.

Media saturation has resulted in rejecting ‘metanarratives’ - the idea that there’s only one truth. People have become sceptical about ‘truth claims’, and less susceptible to manipulation by those in power.

Media globalisation has also inspired a participatory culture. The audience gets involved by creating their own content, and also by sharing and critiquing the content created by others on social media.

Spencer Thomas (2008) conducted a survey to analyse the difference in media coverage of protests held against military violence in Burma. His study concluded that very little media coverage was received in 1998 compared to that in 2007, with the advent of smartphones. The later protests received global media attention.

According to Thompson, global media products are influenced by the local and cultural products in different countries, giving rise to new forms of fusion. This process is known as cultural hybridity. A suitable example would be Bollywood, which incorporates both traditional Indian and (American) Hollywood influences.

Marxists, however, argue that globalisation restricts choice since the owners of transnational media companies exercise too much power. Additionally, Marxists are concerned with local media culture getting replaced by global culture.

Critiques of postmodernism
Post-modernists have been criticised for exaggerating the influence of global media, as people across many cultures still consider their nationality, ethnicity, traditions, and beliefs to play a significant role in their lives and identities. Cohen and Kennedy (2000) believe that people don’t easily give up their cultures just because they get familiar with elements of global culture.

Media is not the only determining factor in most people’s lifestyle choices. This is because many people are unable to make consumption choices due to the inequalities brought about by poverty, racial discrimination, patriarchy, etc. For instance, access to the internet is still not available to many because they cannot afford it.

Global Media - Key takeaways
Media globalisation is the universal integration of media through the multicultural exchange of ideas. Global media includes all forms of mass communication that reach every corner across the globe.
The key aspects of cultural globalisation are migration, food, sports and entertainment.
Some of the major consequences of the globalisation of culture have been detraditionalisation and risk consciousness.
According to cultural imperialists, globalisation through media is a process where American culture and values are imposed on other parts of the world. This is also known as Americanisation.
The postmodernist perspective considers media the central point of globalisation and focuses on the positive influences of media globalisation on society. Postmodernists have been criticised for exaggerating the influence of global media on people's lifestyles.

hi welcome back to my channel this is

Joe Brown so welcome to my channel this

is called that's the free mind because

I'll be sharing all my inputs all my

knowledge about the

the different subjects hopefully to

those who are currently enrolled for the

semester so hopefully my videos would be

able to help you to learn a lot and even

if this is just a very short video but I

really hope that I I was able to help

you okay so for today's Vlog is I'll be

explaining to you our lesson number five

in the subject of contemporary worlds

our topic for today let's talk about

global media culture so what is global

so

when you talk about global media

cultures we are we are possessing a lot

of culture and when you talk about

culture culture is a way of life it

refers to our own human's way of life

how we present ourselves our belief our

Traditions what are the choices we make

and how

Okay so

media culture the main reason why there

is a media culture because of mass media

and media culture emerges because there

is an intersection between media and

culture

so one of the reasons why there is an

increased influence of globalization it

is because the flow of culture because

we have a lot of differences when you

talk about culture we have our own

belief our own Traditions our own

differences when you talk about culture

and culture can be referred to

these two types of culture we have our

material culture and the non-material

culture because just a few months we are

we are so different in talking about

culture and there are things that we

believe in that others don't believe on

what we are saying so that's why culture

is very important you try to understand

the differences of humans so how we

present ourselves as possibly influenced

by our own culture so when you talk

about material culture this refers to us

the tangible object of humans meaning

a culture we have that culture because

we are able to touch it but when you

talk about the intangible culture we

also have that culture but it is

referred to as non-material culture

because we can attach it you can only

feel it or sense it but we are doing it

okay so

those are the the differences between

the material culture and the

non-material culture that's why there

are a lot of people right why they are

presenting themselves like that because

it is part of their own culture

and we are not doing that thing because

it is not part of our culture so again

we have our material culture and the

non-material culture take note culture

is also articulated in symbols or

illustrations so meaning

our own culture can also be represented

by symbols or illustrations by the way

we speak by our language by our values

and with our practices to meaning we can

see the differences of our culture based

on based on symbols illustrations based

on our language

values our practices so that's why we we

we have a lot of differences when you

talk about culture because we are

practicing different values

symbols illustrations and a lot of

things okay so take note that we appeal

we humans we are carriers of culture so

you talk about carriers meaning our

culture is passed by us by a from one

generation to the Next Generation from

from our forefathers from our ancestors

that is part of our culture I am like

this the way I speak because of my

culture possibly okay so

I am bisaya so the way I speak in

Tagalog I really find it hard to speak

in Tagalog okay so maybe

um my culture also influences how I

speak

okay so we are the carriers of culture

okay we learn culture where did we learn

culture from our homes and our

communities okay since we are

interacting since we are a socializing

agent we love to socialize so possibly

we adapt we adapt everything we adopt we

learned the we learn a lot of culture

from our from our participation okay so

when we go out when we interact with

other people so we experience a lot of

cultural exchange and I think that's

normal I love I love to go out I love to

blend in with other people and possibly

more or less I can also absorb their own

culture or try to adopt or to accept it

and to become part of their own culture

we that we humans are carriers of

culture

for me yes I am a carrier of culture

meaning I am like this because I am

possibly

absorbing the culture that I learned

from my family from my friends from my

homes from my communities so I am like

this because I am influenced by them

okay so because we are the carriers of

culture we love to socialize we love to

blend in with other people we love to

hang out with them and possibly that is

the reason why we are like this

especially when we go out when we

interact with other people we experience

a lot of exchanges like cultural

Exchange

and

after that exchanges after that cultural

exchange sometimes

there are some values or practices that

we also adapt it to ourselves we are

also practicing practicing it ourselves

and that is acculturation trying to

adapt everything you are like this

before but because of the cultural

exchanges you are doing

their own culture to yourself

that is the acculturation

okay so but when you tend to adapt

certain values or practices when you are

just in public you are doing

accommodation meaning you are not

absorbing everything you are just

following depending on the environment

if it is for you if it is really

important to

to to do it or to practice that values

and believe so you also try to to

accommodate it that is called

accommodation

okay

so so there are also times when we tend

to resemble the people in the other

group meaning when we try to resemble

the people in other groups it is called

assimilation

meaning

the first thing it will happen because

of the cultural exchanges we learn a lot

of things from from others from other

culture and because we learned something

from them from their own culture we try

to adapt it to ourselves that is

acculturation and when you try to adapt

certain aspects of their own values and

practices that is referred to as

accommodation it really depends on the

environment that you are in if it is

really needed to adapt it or not that is

accommodation you are just accommodating

their own values and practices

okay so when we try to resemble the

people in the other group so when we try

to put ourselves in the other group you

are now considered practicing the idea

of assimilation so the same will happen

to us when we come to interact with

other people that's why when you go

abroad when you make uh sometimes you

will be surprised that you are also

practicing their own culture even though

you are not used to that culture so

that's that's the process of that's the

process of

of trying to adapt

of trying to adapt the the difference

the different values that you learn from

other people because then again we

humans are carriers of cultures wherever

you go whatever you are doing

then again we are carriers of culture

so let's talk about globalization and

culture

so I know that you are all familiar with

this globalization

so we are influenced by a lot of things

there are a lot of changes a lot of

things that is happening and that is the

influence of globalization I am like

this I am doing this because of the

influence of globalization I have to do

it

I have to I have to change myself from a

from a a very shy teach uh teacher you

know from this one so I have to do it

because for me the culture now uh

students learn a lot of things in social

media and they are so eager to watch you

on YouTube so this is the influence a

perfect example of globalization

we are we are exploring the different

spaces we are exploring the different

Horizon the different spaces so trying

to trying to engage with other people

so trying to to to be with them or to

interact with them so take note that

globalization facilitate sharing of

ideas and for me that is true

because I I also learn a lot in on

YouTube I love watching YouTube I I've

got I've gained a lot of learnings

through YouTube even though they don't

know me I also don't know them I just

watched them on YouTube but there is

sharing of ideas there's attitudes

values okay

so despite the the distance we were able

to share our ideas and that is a good

thing of globalization we are sharing

our culture our ideas and values and our

ways of life through globalization and

we're also able to share it too to

another people with with our differences

in culture globalization trying to

connect us everywhere

and cultural flows

it is a term used to refer to its

Dynamic of culture in the age of

globalization so there is cultural flows

when you talk about cultural flows

meaning wherever you go there is there's

a dynamic of culture in the age of

globalization sometimes it's easy for us

to understand one another because we are

so immersed with the differences of our

culture and for me that is a good thing

because even though I am just here in

late Teno but because of the

globalization I was able to grasp a

little bit of their own culture even

even if there's a huge distance from me

to another culture

Okay so

Global cultural flows can be viewed in

different ways so when you talk about

global cultural flow since we are so

diverse

so

culture are inherently and strongly

unique from one another I have my own

culture you also have your own culture

so it is it makes me unique and it makes

you unique and that is culture it is

inherently and strongly unique from one

another

and sometimes we we also have that

differences in culture

and for me that is normal that is normal

to experience cultural differentialism

meaning we are expressing our own

differences in culture

and if we get to learn their own culture

and because of our open-mindedness we

are able to grasp their own culture and

trying to to adapt or to apply it to

ourselves for the betterment of our own

culture

Okay so

this view suggests that there are

barriers which Shield cultures from

being penetrated by external inputs okay

sometimes there are people who are

influenced by the by by other culture

and trying to change their own culture

from from that new learned culture but

there are also people who are not like

that they they were able to learn

something from from others culture but

they will still retain their own culture

for me as a Filipino I will also I will

always retain my my Filipino culture

because then again I love my culture and

I am very proud of my own culture

okay so another view when you talk about

the global flows is although there is a

widespread of globalization and we

cannot deny the fact that it it gives us

a lot of positive inputs yes but uh

sometimes because of the global flows is

sometimes there is or already that term

called cultural hybridization so what is

cultural hybridization meaning

meaning there is now in there is now a

strong emerge when you talk about our

Global and local culture meaning we are

influenced by our Global culture and

trying to adapt it our local culture

because of our interaction with another

people okay that's why our culture now

it's called as hybridization because of

the emergence of the combinations of

global and local cultures so we have

this one this Global flows

are the following so we have so we will

explain that to you the three Global

flows of our of of global and local

culture number one is the ethnoscapes

when you talk about ethnoscapes this is

the movement of people why there is

a combination of global and local

culture because people are keep on

moving people I keep on sharing people I

keep on migrating to another country

that's why this is called the cultural

hybridization

meaning because of the movement of

people we are now experiencing cultural

hybridization the second Global flows is

the thickness capes so when you talk

about techno Scapes it is there is a

fluid an interlinked global technology

meaning there is now the increase of

very fluid so our learning is very fluid

it is it is spread out right so there is

a strong link with regards to global

technology so there are a lot of

inventions and we as Filipino we're also

trying to adapt that inventions to us

there are a lot of things happening now

especially in specially in in in in our

lives now and how we present ourselves

people are moving and people are trying

to connect with one another despite the

differences in culture

number three is the finance capes so

because of the movement of amount of

money across Nation to States because

there is movement of money that

right so people are constantly moving

people are trying to adapt and trying to

work abroad and there is a huge amount

of money across Nation to States

okay that is the financecapes that's why

there is there is now a strong link

between us and globalization the finance

Cape we keep on moving we keep on

sharing and we keep on blending with

with one another the fourth is the media

Escape media escapes meaning there is a

fast production and transfer of

information so now it is very easy to to

learn a lot of things on social media

and it is very easy to do research

because you can you can easily get

something out of a very short video clip

you will able to get to know their

knowledge their skills their how they do

a lot of things and that is the

influence of media escapes the fast

production and transfer of information

and the last one is the

idea escapes so there is a movement of

political image

there is a movement of political images

meaning there are a lot of movement when

you talk about your own ideas your own

political images that's why people are

improving people are moving and we are

moving everywhere we are moving for the

betterment of our culture

so instead of clashing and conflicting

no so when you talk about culture there

is I think it is normal that we

experience a lot of clashing and

conflicting

and lastly because of culture because of

globalization

um now we are experiencing cultural

convergence so when you talk about

cultural convergences because of the

influence of globalization our culture

the influence of mass media to how we

present ourselves sometimes we also

become one we are because and I think

possibly that is the reason why we are

experiencing a lot of changes within

ourselves trying to adapt a lot of

things because of that cultural

convergence

so this is linked with the concept of

cultural assimilation right when you try

to assimilate when you try when you try

to absorb uh

others culture to be transmitted to us

possibly we're also practicing that

ourselves and that is the main reason

where we are why we are influenced by

others when you talk about culture

okay so the process of cultural

convergence meaning when we are trying

to be homogeneous when you're trying to

to become one with with with the with

culture when you try to become one with

culture we are not practicing cultural

imperialism

so meaning we are imposing we are

imposing others culture to ourselves

we are we are trying to to be one with

them we are trying to absorb them we are

trying to to blend in with them and I

think it is very rampant for today's

generation it's easy for us to adapt to

the with the different set of our own

culture some may not adapt but some may

also adapt depending on how they see the

the culture that we are in that really

depends on the on the person handling

their their own culture if they will

adapt it or not

okay so how about the media culture

so when you talk about media culture

media is a means of conveying something

and I know when you talk about culture

no uh social media is is very

social media is very uh trending social

media is uh for today's generation we

are putting on investing so much effort

when you talk about social media people

are doing

lagging sharing their own idea sharing

their thoughts and for me it is the

influence of media culture even at home

I I am not used to to speaking like this

but because of the

it all started with

last two years when the pandemic hit our

country and I tried to change my own

culture to for me to be able to share my

thoughts to the students without doing

face to face so I think this is the only

way for me to to try to absorb something

from from that culture

so

I am not practicing everything but it

enjoy but when I am just in public so

possibly I am also doing something like

that okay so media is a means of

conveying something and I really love

doing this this this kind of thing no

because I was able to reach a lot of

students to reach a lot of people even

though not not really my students but

they were able to I was able to help

them possibly probably so I was able to

convey something for them so I am just

so happy that I am using the culture of

another sculpture to to be put into

myself to be confident in speaking in

front

through this through this video so media

is a means of conveying something a

Channel of communication so there is an

intersection between globalization and

media

in what way there is a intersection

number one is

there is oral communication like this

this is this is a perfect example of the

influence of globalization and media I

am communicating with you

there is a video but I am still

communicating with you through media

number two is script we can also

communicate with others by writing the

printing press Electronic media digital

media so today's generation we are so

we are so into digital media and we are

so expressive

with regards to our thoughts with

regards to how we see things we are so

expressive with our emotions through

digital media

okay there's a good thing and sometimes

because of our extreme extreme

expression and social media sometimes uh

there is Clashing of ideas there is

conflicting of ideas because then again

we are living with a different culture

so instead of clashing and conflicting

ideas why not try to to absorb that in

in a try to absorb that in a more

positive way and trying to to be better

in in transforming ourselves despite the

differences of our culture

Okay so

the digital media has become a

phenomenon yes

right so the digital media has become a

phenomenon I am not I am not a techie

person I really need the help of my

husband in doing something like this my

husband is a

uh he knows a lot of technicalities I'm

not like that so I am just lucky I have

that partner in my life okay so with the

prevalent use of social network

platforms like Instagram Twitter

Snapchat YouTube among others

we are so diverse now

we are connecting with so many people

we are

we are doing uh intersection between us

and other people

and we are trying to share our own

thoughts our ideas our knowledge to

another people

so that's why

self-expression the way you express

yourselves is possibly transmitted to us

through media culture so let's try to be

familiar to be careful in doing

self-expression right it's good that

you're able to express that but let's

always

I could see the the culture of another

person while doing our own

self-expression

okay so media and the Filipinas

so what happened to us when you talk

about media

again Filipinos are known to be

they are consumers of various forms of

media

and it was it was it was revealed that

Filipinos are the world's top user of

social media yes

in a 2019 study it was revealed that

Filipinos are the world stop user of

social media and for me that is that is

very

and that is very true we are spending a

lot of time watching YouTube spending

playing online games and Filipinos love

to watch movies yes

right so we are so attached with our

digital media today's generation they

are so good in dealing with social media

digital media

Okay so

media is influential in many aspects you

can learn a lot of things through media

like social media

okay so there are a lot of issues when

you talk about media culture

and I know that you are all aware with

that so I don't have to explain that to

you one by one uh the main idea here is

because of the globalization we we

cannot

I think there is fluidity when you talk

about globalization there's a widespread

of information too much of information

the main issue here is trying to filter

a lot of information to yourself and

trying to adapt what is what is

important to you and not to adapt what

is not for use not so important so there

are a lot of issues in media cultures

because then again people are doing

self-expression so when you do

self-expression we are just expressing

our subjectivity we are just telling

what we are

uh we're just telling what with what

what we think is right for us we are

sometimes we are so carried away with

our own culture with our own emotions

for the sake of self-expression okay so

thank you so much for watching all my

videos I really do hope that you are

learning from all the videos that I

posted and thank you so much so this is

our lesson number five in the subject of

contemporary world


GLOBALIZATION OF RELIGION

The Information Age and the Globalization of Religion
INOUE Nobutaka
1. Impact of the "Information Age"
The so-called "information age" is gradually spreading its influence to the realm of religion, namely, in the methods religions use for teaching, proselytizing, and in belief systems. Particularly noteworthy developments include the fact that it is now possible for any religion to spread beyond national borders, allowing even small new religious movements to engage in overseas proselytization activities, and leading to new, hitherto unseen religious developments. This rapid acceleration of the "information age" is now producing a phenomenon which can be called the "globalization of religion."

Although it is impossible to estimate how this process will develop in the future, it is likely that religious information will increasingly circulate in ways different from those formerly known, new types of religious organization will be formed, and the contents of their activities and teachings will experience a more turbulent rate of change than before. In this sense, religion overall is facing a great turning point.

To discuss these issues, however, I would like to begin by describing my perspective on the meaning of information age. While this expression is often heard, its contents frequently differ depending on the user. In particular, different individuals and differing areas of special interest often reflect differing concepts of when the information age properly began, and what it signifies. And if the question is extended to the essential nature of "information," we become embroiled in even thornier difficulties.

In any event, it cannot be denied that our "information environment" has changed drastically over the past twenty years. We can begin our discussion by keeping in mind the main characteristics of this change. By "information environment," I here mean first, the method of information propagation, namely the so-called "hardware" and its technology; second, the geographical and social reach or expanse of the information propagation, and third, the quantity and content of information being propagated. In regard to these three points, the "information age" clearly signals great qualitative differences from preceding periods. And since this development is undergoing constant and rapid evolution, it is impossible to predict what kinds of influence will impact our society hereafter. It is impossible to deny, however, that the appearance of new styles of communication stemming from the development of new technologies and media are having a decisive effect on current social change. Massive amounts of information can now be transmitted instantly, accurately, in multiple formats to multiple destinations, and this technological progress is even now changing our own social systems. And the influence of this development inevitably extends to religious phenomena as well.

The decisive change in our means of communication was signaled by the invention and popular dissemination of the computer, with the result that one could claim that the most apt keyword expressing this situation is "the age of the personal computer." We also see on the one hand the development of audio-visual mass media such as broadcast satellites, while on the other hand the continuing spread of personal communication media such as personal portable telephones. And on top of these phenomena, the world of "multi-media" is now expanding at a rapid pace.

To these developments, the first direct response by religious groups can be observed in their methods of proselytizing activities. Many religious organizations now utilize so-called "new media" in their proselytization activities.

Another remarkable feature of the information age is the new geographical and social extent or "reach" of information. It is noteworthy that even information formerly limited to professionals or specialists can no longer be kept as the exclusive preserve of closed societies, namely, particularistic social strata, professional associations, or members of certain organizations. In this sense, geographical and social boundaries are being broken in numerous ways and places. Information formerly the preserve of a limited membership of certain closed groups is now increasingly obtained through a variety of means by "outsiders." This trend is visible in academic fields, journalism, enterprise activities, and even national secrets, and the new world of the "Internet" will accelerate the trend. These developments involve factors which imply clear changes in previous concepts of "group" and "organization." And religious groups will be forced to adapt.

We should also note a changing trend in the contents of information and communication. With the development of new means of information exchange, and establishment of "networks" differing from the traditional social networks, the information exchanged tends to be of a more diverse nature, and it is pregnant with the potential to even change people's categories with respect to the objects of knowledge. For example, we will likely see increasing numbers of people possessing more advanced specialist knowledge than professional experts in the field. In the matter of religion, it becomes possible that those not trained as religious professionals might easily possess more abundant religious knowledge than priests, monks, or ministers. I provisionally label this phenomenon "changing intellectual places," and feel it likely that the trend toward such intellectual reversal of positions will increase in the future.

Within this condition of a qualitative change in information, the control of information will become an increasingly heavy concern in carrying out one's purposes, whether that purpose be political, economic, or cultural in nature. Namely, in increasing cases, it is becoming more decisive to know how to collect and use more relevant information, than to know how to meet more people, deepen one's communication with them, and develop mutual confidence, and as I shall point out below, there are signs that this fact is becoming true even for the sacred realms of religion. Viewed in these terms, we are forced to admit that the information age is leading the way to a monumental transformation in human culture.

2. The Globalization of Religion
Next, I want to discuss various religious transformations in the information age from the viewpoint of globalization. First, regarding the concept of globalization: this expression is encountered frequently, but just as frequently with different meanings. Some use it to mean much the same as "internationalization," while others define it as a kind of "borderless" phenomenon. Roland Robertson has provided a fruitful definition for globalization in regard to the religious realm, and I must confess that I have been influenced by several aspects of his discussion on globalization in recent years. And I share Robertson's idea that the concept of globalization should be clearly distinguished from that of internationalization.

Although the processes of internationalization and globalization occasionally overlap and involve some of the same characteristics, it is more appropriate for purposes of analysis of the current situation to define them as two essentially different process. Namely, internationalization should be understood, literally, as the process of deepening mutual relations among nations, while globalization is unique in that it often violates or transcends the concept of, or boundaries among, nations. Accordingly, we can state that the modern world simultaneously contains both these processes, which proceed individually while delicately intersecting at certain points.

Of the two, the phenomenon of globalization is most striking in the fields of economic and scientific technology. The financial market continues to grow more borderless day by day, while new technology is shared through the world almost instantly. The topic I treat today, however, is the one of far more conservative cultural phenomena like religion. Full-scale globalization in the field of cultural phenomena is still in its infancy, though incipient signs can be found in every aspect of daily life. What perspective is most apt for considering globalization in this sense?

Globalization in cultural phenomena occurs with different characteristics depending on the specific area of culture involved. It is likely that globalization will occur in a different way in areas decisively concerned with language, for example, national literature and scripts, from areas not so crucially concerned, such as the artistic fields of music and dance. And the precise form globalization will take in the case of religion is not yet clear. Regardless of the difficulties involved in making specific predictions regarding the direction of coming change, cultural globalization will share certain characteristics of other globalization processes, namely the weakening or disappearance of borders between nations, societies, and ethnic groups, and simultaneous unfolding of events on a global scale. And it must be added that the principle according to which these things will unfold is that of competition in a free market.

When this vision of globalization is applied to religion, we can suggest that we will see steady change from the conventional form of religion linked intimately to the histories and cultures of respective nations and ethnic groups. Instead, the activities of individual religious groups will take on the increasing characteristic of free competition on a global scale. Further, there is also the possibility of witnessing great transformations in the traditional structure of the historical religions.

The phenomenon of a religion's expanding without ties to a specific nation, society, or ethnic group is not, in itself, new. Religion is fundamentally is endowed with just such powers of survival. But what I wish to emphasize here is the fact that the concept of globalization concerns the situation after the branches and sects of so-called "world religions" --- namely, Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism --- have established their religio-cultural spheres throughout the world. Everywhere in the world one can observe the deep connection between religion and the state or ethnic group, and various religious structures --- together with the characteristics originally held by the religion or sect --- have often undergone great transformations in the process of developing within specific nations or ethnic groups. For example, the same Mahayana Buddhism has developed substantially different social functions in the neighboring countries of Korea and Japan. In this way, each region of the world can be defined by a distribution map of its main religious groups, while at the same time, the religion within each nation and ethnic group has come to possess its own unique characteristics.

In this context, the globalization of religion can be understood as a process of realignment in this global religious situation, a process which involves the following three facets: First, it implies the inevitable transformation of individual religious organizations; second, it can be expected that new characteristics will be produced in the contents of doctrines, rituals, and practices; and third, globalization will be accompanied by changes in the human beings supporting religions, particularly in their intellectual perspectives. In the following section, I want to discuss these three points while considering concrete examples, primarily from Japan, Asia, and the United States.

3. Transformations in Religious Organization
The first question I want to consider here is what kind of organizational forms will take primacy in globalization. One type which has already appeared is seen in the concept of "multinational religion" studied by Nakamaki Hirochika. While the concept of a "multinational" religion was obviously borrowed from that of a multinational corporation, it is not merely a form of analogy, but rests on the notion that the same current global conditions influence both the economic activities of the multinational corporation and the proselytizing activities of the religious organization. In the same way that it is natural for a corporation with global strategy to become a multinational, it is characteristic for a religious group with a global perspective to go the multinational route, regardless of whether the group is traditional or quite new.

In terms of organizational characteristics, I would describe a multinational religion as a group organized around modern systems of proselytization, with semi-independent operation of the organizations in each country in accordance with the unique cultural and social situations of the respective country, but also characterized by the presence of mutual organic relations between the various national branches, and oriented toward continual enlargement of the organization as a whole. A prototypical multinational religious group of Japanese origin is Soka Gakkai, while the Church of World Messianity, Sukyo Mahikari, and Perfect Liberty can also be included as groups in the process of multinationalization. Soka Gakkai is organized globally under the name Soka Gakkai International (SGI); this umbrella organization comprehends individual country groups like "Soka Gakkai of France" or "Soka Gakkai of America" which in turn maintain mutual relations as sister organizations. While it is true that the Japanese Soka Gakkai organization functions as a central headquarters, each national organization undertakes its activities in response to the unique conditions of its respective host country.

In Japan, the emergence of religious groups at a "pre-multinational" stage was clearly apparent in the period immediately following World War II. Some groups had engaged in international activities in the prewar period, but most were directed at expatriot Japanese or Japanese emigrants in the Americas, and at expatriot Japanese in those Asian countries over which Japan had established political or military control. Many Japanese emigrated to Hawaii and the Americas in the prewar period, and they and their descendants wanted to maintain the same religious rituals they had known in Japan. On the other hand, many Japanese were also present in Korea, Taiwan, mainland China and other Asian countries. The Japanese government wanted to establish Shinto shrines in colonized areas, and many Buddhist priests likewise began missionary activities there. As a result, many Shinto shrines and Buddhist temples came to exist in Korea and Taiwan during the period of colonization, and the great majority of adherents at these religious institutions were Japanese.

After Japan's defeat in World War II, the Japanese religious groups that had existed in Asia disappeared almost completely, while they continued to exist in the Americas. This difference was obviously because the religions had not been accepted by the natives of the Asian countries. Later, however, after Japan entered its period of high economic growth in 1955, religious groups engaging in overseas proselytization gradually increased, and at present, a total of some twenty groups (including some of very small scale) engage in some degree of overseas proselytization. And these groups include a considerable number of non-Japanese members. In addition to the Americas, these groups are active in various countries of Europe and Asia, and a limited part of Africa.

A great factor in the increasing overseas activities by Japanese religious groups can be tied to Japan's growing economic clout, but it is noteworthy that it is the new religions, and not the established sects of Buddhism and Shrine Shinto that are at the forefront of this overseas activity. With the exception of a limited number of Zen organizations, the traditional established groups of Buddhism and Shinto tend to focus their efforts on Japanese expatriots or ethnic Japanese. In contrast, the proportion of non-Japanese in the new religions continues to grow. The great majority of the Japanese new religions have the latent potential to become multinational.

On the other hand, multinational religious groups of foreign origin are also present in Japan; one example is the Unification Church from Korea. The Unification Church is increasing its membership in Korea, Japan, the U.S. and other countries. The Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints) can likewise be included in this category. Both the latter began their activity in the nineteenth century United States, going on to become multinational in orientation only in this century. It is likely that the U.S. produced the first multinational religious groups, and that because of the high incidence of ethnic groups and their religions.

Rajneesh's movement, which originally started in India in the 1960s is often considered to be another multinational religion. And recently, several Taoist sects from Taiwan have spread to Japan, most of them from the branch called in Japanese ikkando; it is not yet clear whether these Taoist movements will follow the path of multinationalism, although they retain the potential. It may be worthwhile to consider that the spread of Asian religions to Japan may serve as springboard to the globalization of those religions in the greater Asian region.

In addition to the multinational type of religion, the "networking" type of organization also holds the potential for future growth. The network religion operates not so much by advancing with overseas propagation and the establishment of branch organizations, but rather by seeking global sympathizers with socio-religious activities promoted by the religious group, thus aiming at the fostering of participation in various kinds of social movements, including peace movements, environmental-protection movements, and social reform movements. In this case, enlargement of the group organization itself is secondary to participation in the movement. While such groups are relatively rare, the peace movement promoted by Byakko Shinko-kai can be considered one example.

Similarly, a growing movement with interest in the "spirit world" (seishin sekai) has been apparent in Japan since the 1970s, and seeks to enhance innate human "spirituality," as influenced by the various "new age" movements which began in the United States. This movement likewise has the potential for global expansion.

With the advent of the multimedia age, it is likely that we will see the appearance of additional new forms of electronic communication based on computers. Religious information is already being exchanged using electronic mail or "e-mail," and it is said that Aum Shinrikyo attempted to use this kind of media. While we cannot predict the future of computer communications, a "shapeless organization" based on such computer communications is not beyond the realm of possibility. And the possibility also exists for the emergence of "stateless religions" existing without clear country of origin or headquarters.

4. Transformations in Doctrine, Ritual, and Activity
What will globalization mean for the transformation of religious doctrines, rituals and practices? The most likely aspect of change is a combination of various elements from different streams, a phenomenon which I would like to describe as "neo-syncretism." Neo-syncretism is at base a variety of syncretism, though I offer the "neo" in respect of its unique features as part of the information age.

The phenomenon of syncretism is entirely natural within societies where multiple religious traditions coexist. The syncretistic relationship existing between Shinto and Buddhism is well known in Japan, while syncretism existed between Taoism, Confucianism and Buddhism in China, and between Buddhism and Hinduism in wide areas of South and Southeast Asian countries. What is the difference between these classical forms of syncretism and "neo-syncretism"? The most important difference I wish to suggest is the fact that in neo-syncretism, doctrines and rituals are amalgamated intentionally and aggressively, merely on the basis of available information, and without the necessity of any actual contact between the religious groups involved.

Syncretism is a broad characteristic of the Japanese new religions, most of which are based elements taken from both Shinto and Buddhism. Most new religions of the Meiji period (1867-1912) can be understood as being based on doctrines and ceremonies taken from earlier conventional established religions, adapted for the current climate. But in recent years, increasing cases can be seen of new religions borrowing elements from Christianity, "primitive Buddhism," Theravada Buddhism, American "new age" movements and other religious traditions with origins decidedly outside of the pattern of conventional established religions in Japan. In extreme cases, the doctrines appear as little more than a "patchwork" concoction without coherence, yet it is this form that can be viewed as prototypical "neo-syncretism."

The influence of the religion of Ômoto is likely a crucial factor in the incidence of neo-syncretism in many recent new religions. Established toward the end of the nineteenth century, Ômoto grew to its greatest extent between around 1910 and the 1930s, espousing the basic doctrinal tenet that "all religions are one" or "all religions have the same origin." The idea that all religions have a common base is shared by many recent new religions, and it is likely that this idea has had the effect of weakening any reluctance to adopt elements from a variety of external religious traditions.

At the same time, it should be noted that one effect of the "information age" has been to make it easier to gain access to information regarding the teachings and activities of other religions. Even those without professional religious training can easily gain information of this kind, making it easier to form new religious movements without the necessity of being bound to a single tradition in one's own society, merely by adopting personally appealing elements from a variety of sources.

Similar phenomena can be observed in the new religions of the United States. According to my understanding, when the term "new religion" is applied to cases in the United States, it ordinarily is accompanied by the implication that it includes elements of foreign origin. In particular, the term is used to refer to religions involving a Christian base with the addition of elements borrowed from Hinduism, Buddhism or other Eastern thought. These kinds of movements occurred primarily on the United States West Coast in the period following World War II. The "People's Temple," notorious for its collective suicide in Guyana in 1978, was led by Jim Jones, who was said to have been strongly influenced by Chinese Maoist thought.

On the other hand, many countries in East and Southeast Asia have historically been open to syncretistic movements. In many areas, Buddhism, Hinduism, Christianity, Islam, Confucianism and Taoism have been blessed by a cultural ambience allowing long periods of coexistence. In this situation, it will be an item of interest whether and to what degree "neo-syncretistic" religions become conspicuous in the future.

5. Transformations in Intellectual Environment
How will the globalization process change the situation of those concerned with religion? Here, the intellectual environment of the people involved is crucial. The information age has had a momentous effect on changing the intellectual environment, since one important meaning of the information age is that increasing numbers of people become not just consumers of information, but transmitters of information in their own right. If the only revolution were one of technology and hardware, we could not call it the "information age." When the majority of people cannot utilize the technical innovations involved, the technology itself tends to be used by one segment of information transmitters exclusively as a means of controlling the masses of information receivers.

The condition of popular culture might be called a supporting pillar of the information age, and it promotes the globalization of religion as well. By "condition of popular culture" I mean that the overall intellectual level of the populace is raised, promoting standardization and preventing a limited intellectual elite from monopolizing access to information. Within this situation, religious information likewise cannot be monopolized by religious professionals. Every individual now has a chance to be a transmitter, receiver, and mediator of religious discourse. Here, one will see increasing numbers of individual emerging from the popular background to become religious leaders, preaching a message not only simple enough to be accepted by other ordinary people, but delivered in such a way that those adherents can easily turn around and transmit the message to others.

Within this situation, the authority and power of control which religious organizations have traditionally possessed will tend to be weakened and transformed. In the process of religious globalization, a "user-oriented religious market" will emerge in addition to the conventional "producer-oriented system," and the very distinction between "leader" and "follower" will likely become increasingly ambiguous.

Some additional explanation: my uses of the economic expression producer-oriented system refers to the way we typically think about conventional religious groups. The core for the social functioning and historical continuity of a religion is the church for Christianity, or the sangha in Buddhism, the umma of Islam, the shrine in Shinto, and the various group headquarters of the new religions. In this context, the church symbolizes the authority of the religion; the doctrines are based on traditions which churches have maintained, while priests, monks, and ministers have attempted to interpret religious information to the believers. The role of believers is merely to accept this situation.

The "user-oriented religious market," on the other hand, refers to a situation in which each individual, in response to his or her personal values and sensibilities, considers, selects, and tries out those elements which he finds most attractive and suitable from the mass of competing religions. From the perspective of the producer-centered orientation, such behavior is assessed as a lack of religious seriousness, or a wavering of faith, but from the standpoint of the religious user, it is only logical to attempt to select what one determines to be the best of several alternatives.

As suggested earlier, the distinction between transmitters and receivers of religious information is likely to become increasingly ambiguous. Within the Japanese new religions, a common phenomenon is for an individual who was once a member of one religious group to later become the founder of his or her own movement. Other groups frequently adopt a system whereby each new member is expected to act as an active minister for the group, a system which I call the "all-member proselytizer" system. In short, it is not unusual for new members to be expected to devote themselves to proselytizing activities after a relatively short period of formal training. These tendencies have contributed to increasing unclarity in the boundary between "producers" and "user"" of religion. This trend has been accelerated by the trend toward "intellectual popularization" which has proceeded in Japan.

And most recently, increasing examples can be seen of religions which being transmitted without reliance on any specific individuals engaged in missionary activities. For example, Japanese new religions frequently gain foreign members by the informal efforts of Japanese lay members who are sent to work at companies or factories in other Asian countries. This is partly another evidence of the "all-member proselytizer" system at work, but it can also be understood part of the process of global expansion of religious movements without reliance on a professional clergy.

This trend can likewise be witnessed in the case of Saibaba, the leader of an Indian religious movement which became widely popular in Japan after it was introduced in a book authored by a young Japanese scientist. In short, the key to religious success frequently lies less in the quality of one's credentials as a religious professional than in one's ability to successfully manipulate the media.

This situation likewise reflects the declining authority of religious professionals within the traditional established religions. One effect of the information age will be the increasing loss of prestige by religious professionals such as monks, priests, pastors, and ministers. We are now entering an age in which small groups of religious professionals will no longer be able to monopolize religious information. Lay believers now have increasing ability to avail themselves of the central core of religious traditions, even those esoteric elements formerly unavailable except to specially authorized clergy. And as a result, those religious authorities which were formerly sustained by their role in maintaining an esoteric religious core will suffer a general loss of prestige. Needless to say, this loss refers to the overall authority which conventional religious organizations have maintained, and it is on quite a different plane from the dignity and prestige of each religious professional as an individual, since it is obvious that both reputable and disreputable clergy have existed in every religion and every era.

In sum, the information age is resulting in diminished distance between religious professionals and lay adherents. In fact, it is no longer the exceptional case to find ordinary people who possess a deeper understanding of Buddhism or Shinto than professional Buddhist monks or Shinto priests. This tendency will likely increase in the future, and it cannot be entirely explained by the apathy of individual members of the clergy. Rather, it is the result of the fact, as I have suggested above, that the information society tends to erase the distinction between such specialists and the lay population. The significance of this development is that the traditional, historical religions will likely find it increasingly difficult to develop systems for training their next generations of religious professionals. Within the process of globalization, many religions are confronting the relativization of their own significance, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to make the claim of unique religious legitimacy for a single group. As the information age progresses, growing numbers of people will view religion through more critical, relativizing lenses, but limited to the Japanese case, it would appear that traditional religions are responding to this situation in an inarticulate way.

6. Conclusion
The globalization of religion should be understood as an inevitable historical process, and it is not my purpose here to make a value assessment of its desirability. If, however, the trends which I have described in the foregoing continue to progress, certain negative effects will naturally be exerted on society. For example, we may expect the appearance of more groups like Aum Shinrikyo, and if groups engage in criminal and anti-social activities like Aum, it can be viewed as symptomatic of certain dangers posed by the information age.

The doctrines of Aum Shinriky were a hodgepodge adopted from a variety of existing religions. They exhibited neo-syncretistic traits by adopting the Christian concept of Armageddon while piously insisting that they were followers of primitive Buddhism. They also used video taped propaganda messages to inculcate new acolytes with the Aum worldview, an application of modern information technology to proselytizing activities. Finally they engaged in overseas activities, mainly in Russia following the collapse of the communist government, and it is said that they quickly attracted between 30,000 and 50,000 followers, a line of activity which can perhaps also be considered a typical strategy in the age of globalization.o

On the other hand, the easy connection between religion and crime is one indication of the dangers inherent in the information age. Aum sought young people with top minds in natural sciences, so group leaders collected electronic data regarding recent top college graduates in certain scientific fields, and engaged in proselytization focused on those graduates. As they sought ways of producing poisonous gas, they used electronic communications to amass scientific and technical data. They easily engaged in activities that previous Japanese new religions had never imagined. Although a great difference naturally lies between the possibility of an activity and actually engaging in it, the Aum affair illustrates the easy potential for a group to launch out on such a direction in the context of the information age. In short, criminal activity is another object of globalization.

The globalization of religion presents numerous problems outside those involved by the Aum affair. As the traditional religions lose their overall legitimacy and authority, the social integrating role of religion will be weakened. Particularly for social groups like the nation and traditional communities, religion may come to foment more tension than integration.

As increasing elements of foreign culture and religion are introduced to Japan from the United States, Korea, India, and Taiwan, the Japanese population's linkage to traditional religion is weakened, particularly among the younger generation. For example, traditional religious observances celebrating New Year are decreasing, while those centered on Christmas or other religious holidays of foreign origin are becoming more popular. One sees increasing unconcern with the Buddhist seasonal holidays of setsubun or higan, and more with St. Valentine's day and Halloween. Needless to say, the latter are not being accepted as "religious" rituals, but only as a kind of non-everyday event or secular festival. And this fact points out another aspect of the process of globalization, namely the increasing fuzziness of discrimination between the realms of the religious and non-religious or the secular. Since religion enjoys a different status in different places around the globe, the concept of religion itself is forced to undergo transformation as part of the process of globalization. These processes, however, should not be understood merely as a breakdown of tradition, and which must therefore be inhibited. The globalization processes do not proceed in specific fields or areas, but function as a rearrangement of world systems. As a result, the globalization of religion should be understood as one part of this process. Because it is only one part, it may be characterized by certain idiosyncrasies unique to it, but not so great that it cannot be described by the overall principles governing the globalization metaphor.

Globalization makes it inevitable that the form of missionary activities, human relationships, and the content of religious information communicated will be transformed. The most important point, then, may be to emphasize that the nature of the globalization process itself needs to be more widely perceived and understood by more people, particularly those of its aspects which threaten to generate negative results for our societies.

As a contested term, globalization has many definitions, each worthy of merit. Generally, globalization is first thought of “in economic and political terms, as a movement of capitalism spreading across the globe.”[1] It calls to mind “homogenizing exports of the US” such as Nike, McDonald’s, and MTV.[2] However, since globalization can be defined as a process of an “ever more interdependent world”[3] where “political, economic, social, and cultural relationships are not restricted to territorial boundaries or to state actors,” globalization has much do with its impact on cultures.[4]

As goods and finance crisscross across the globe, globalization shifts the cultural makeup of the globe and creates a homogenized “global culture.”[5] Although not a new phenomenon, the process of globalization has truly made the world a smaller place in which political, social, and economic events elsewhere affect individuals anywhere.[6] As a result, individuals “search for constant time and space-bounded identities” in a world ever changing by the day.[7] One such identity is religion.

Generally, religion is a “system of beliefs and practices.”[8] More specifically, the word comes from the Latin “religare” which means “to bind together again that which was once bound but has since been torn apart or broken.”[9] Indeed, with the globalization of economics and politics, individuals feel insecure “as the life they once led is being contested and changed at the same time.”[10] Hence, “in order for a person to maintain a sense of psychological well-being and avoid existential anxiety,”[11] individuals turn to scripture stories and teachings that provide a vision about how they can be bound to a “meaningful world,” a world that is quickly changing day-by-day.[12]

Nonetheless, the relationship between globalization and religion is one with new possibilities and furthering challenges. On the one hand, while religion takes advantage of communication and transportation technology, it is at the same time the source of globalization’s greatest resistance by acting as a haven for those standing in opposition to its power.[13] On the other hand, because globalization allows for daily contact, religion enters a circle of conflict in which religions become “more self-conscious of themselves as being world religions.”[14] This essay argues that the relationship between religion and globalization is complex, one with new possibilities and furthering challenges. However, this essay cannot provide a comprehensive overview of religion and globalization, as the terrain is too vast. Still, it does provide several examples to illustrate the complex relationship between the two.

First, this essay explains how globalization engenders greater religious tolerance across areas such as politics, economics, and society. Second, it explains that as globalization does so, it also disrupts traditional communities, causes economic marginalization, and brings individuals mental stress, all of which create a backlash of religious parochialism. Third, although globalization paves the way in bringing cultures, identities, and religions in direct contact, this essay also explains that globalization brings religions to a circle of conflicts that reinforces their specific identities. Finally, using three paradigmatic individuals and their use of religious ideals in their human rights work, this essay provides some suggestions on how not just religions but humanity can use existing religious principles as ways to overlook religious and cultural differences.

Globalization Engendering Greater Religious Tolerance

Globalization brings a culture of pluralism, meaning religions “with overlapping but distinctive ethics and interests” interact with one another.[15] Essentially, the world’s leading religious traditions—Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam—teach values such as human dignity, equality, freedom, peace, and solidarity.[16] More specifically, religions maintain the Golden Rule: “what you do not wish done to yourself, do not do to others.”[17] Therefore, through such religious values, globalization engenders greater religious tolerance in such areas as politics, economics, and society.

In political areas, globalization has built global political forums that integrate cultural, ethnic, and religious differences—ideologies that were once perceived as dividing the world—through a large number of international organizations such as the United Nations (UN) and the World Health Organization (WHO), as well regional organizations like the European Union (EU), the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), or the African Union (AU). When discussing issues such as international peace and security, health issues, poverty, and environment, these organizations generally share many of the same basic commitments as religious traditions—mainly peace, human dignity, and human equality, as well as conflict resolution in which they actively engage in negotiation, mediation, and diplomacy.[18]

In addition to these political organizations, religious communities such as the Roman Catholic Church, the World Council of Churches, and the Jewish Diaspora also take part in international affairs.[19] For instance, they have taken part in events such the Jubilee 2000, an international effort advocating for cancelling Third World debt by the year 2000, and the World Faiths Development Dialogue, an effort of international faith leaders along with the World Bank to support development agendas corresponding to the UN’s Millennium Development Goals.[20] Furthermore, religious organizations have, themselves, been involved in interreligious dialogue. The Parliament of the World’s Religions of 1993, first conveyed during the 1893 Chicago World Exhibit, brought the world’s diverse faith traditions—from African indigenous religions, the major religions (Judaism, Christianity, and Islam), to any forms of faith that would agree to civil dialogue through mutual encounter—to use their similar values and discuss world affairs.[21]

In terms of economics, as the economy of the major countries of the world has grown, the main religions of each of those countries have also grown financially, providing more financial resources for religions to spread their beliefs.[22] For example, although it may seem as an old tactic, missionary work—especially in light of globalization—is strong in many Third World countries where religious representatives convert the natives.[23] As a result, the major religions today have scattered across the globe—Christianity turning “southern” and “black,” Islam turning “Asian,” and Buddhism turning “white” and “western.”[24] Still holding on to their original territorial spaces where their shrines exist, religions are fulfilling their general purpose of spreading their beliefs to people all over the world.[25]

Finally, religion has tremendously benefited from technological advancements. For example, websites provide information and explanations about different religions to any person regardless of his or her geographical location, as well as provide the opportunity to contact others worldwide and hold debates which allow religious ideas to spread.[26] Furthermore, television allows for religious channels that provide visual religious teachings and practices.[27] Hence, by making the leap onto the information superhighway, which brings religious teachings into every home and monitor in a global setting, religions have come together into one setting.[28]

In short, globalization allows for religions previously isolated from one another to now have regular and unavoidable contact. As a result, globalization brings to the light the fact that since religions have similar values, not one of them is “correct” and, therefore, can be changed.[29] But as the next section shows, the same process that engenders greater religious tolerance also creates a backlash of religious parochialism.

Globalization Creating Backlash of Religious Parochialism

Since globalization is considered as “the first truly world revolution,” “all revolutions disrupt the traditions and customs of a people”—that is, “people’s very security, safety, and identity.”[30] As globalization disrupts traditional communities, causes economic marginalization, and brings mental stress, individuals feel these less desirable consequences of globalization. With religion’s power to “convey a picture of security, stability, and simple answers” through stories and beliefs—unlike economic plans, political programs, or legal regulations—individuals turn to religion.[31]

First, globalization breaks down traditional communities and replaces them with larger, impersonal organizations. As globalization creates a “global village,” it dramatically alters what individuals traditionally understood themselves by—“citizenship,” “nationality,” and “immigration.”[32] For instance, the European Union (EU) does not call their members by country of origin but rather by their greater title, European citizens. Moreover, such organizations set universal standards upon all members, causing individuals to believe that they are not fairly represented. As a result, feeling that these organizations have shattered their “protective cocoon” that has shielded them in the past, many individuals find comfort in religion.[33]

In giving individuals a sense of belonging, religious groups help them to find themselves in modern times. For instance, religious leaders, pointing to modern society’s loss of ethical values and increased corruption, preach, “the only answer to the current ‘decay’ is a return to traditional values and religious norms.”[34] Hence, religion supplies these individuals with a feeling of being a part of a group that represents their interests and allows them to regain their traditional sense of who they are.

Second, globalization brings economic marginalization. For example, as transnational corporations increasingly take over the role of the state’s involvement in the economic sector, the government loses its status as a welfare provider. Moreover, increasing the gaps between those who have benefit from the global market (generally the West) and those who have been left behind (generally the Global South), globalization is seen as “Western imperialism,” as well as “Americanization.”[35] For instance, globalization “encourage[es] people to buy American goods and services, which ultimately “undermines deep-rooted communal values.”[36] Simply put, individuals are bombarded with McDonald’s, Nike, and MTV.

By responding to individuals’ desire for welfare, as well as acting as a cultural protection against globalization, religion plays a social role and gains more recognition from the marginalized, particularly those in Third World countries.[37] For instance, religious organizations such as Catholic Relief Services, World Vision International, and Islamic Relief Worldwide help serve the disadvantaged in areas such as poverty relief, health care, the HIV/AIDs crisis, and environment problems.[38] In fact, even if only promising prosperity and hope of economic relief, these organizations draw massive followers as, by lacking “extensive transnational bureaucracies and chains of command,” they provide “the strength of collective identity and the depth of ethical commitments.”[39]

Last but not least, globalization causes mental stress. Although globalization allows for crisscrossing borders, it also leaves individuals worrying about losing work, status, or other privileges.[40] Moreover, since globalization favors material prosperity as the aim of life over inner peace, individuals focus on attaining some material possession such as a house, car, game, or simply any object.[41] When they attain such item(s), however, they find themselves empty inside and, therefore, realize that inner peace can never be achieved through material possessions.[42]

To these individuals then, religion provides them the way to inner peace and the sense of personal fulfillment. For example, individuals who feel insecure in the globalized world, in business or personal life, will often pray to God for his spiritual support.[43] In addition, these individuals realize that getting involved within their communities and organizing together in social movements for a good cause brings more satisfaction to them than do material possessions.[44] They see themselves as being part of something important and worthwhile.

In short, in face of rapid changes in the globalized world, to regain the sense of certainty, many individuals turn to religion for a clear explanation of what is going on in the world. With its strength as a powerful identity that brings the message of unity and security in times of crisis, religion provides the idea of a “home.”[45] But as the last section demonstrates, this religious identity becomes a major ingredient that reduces the self and the other to a number of cultural religious characteristics.

Religious Identity and Globalization: Furthering Challenges

As the previous section shows, since God has set the rules and has made them difficult to challenge, religion provides answers to questions concerning self-identity.[46] However, in providing such answers, religion also institutes a notion of “truth,”[47] which implies an automatic exclusion of the one—called an “abject”—who does not adhere to such “truth.”[48] In times of uncertainty like globalization, therefore, collective identity is reduced to a number of cultural religious characteristics —“them” and “us” and “they” and “our.”[49] In other words, the abject suddenly becomes recognized as a threat.

For example, since the 9/11 attacks, there has been a tendency of the West to link the religion of Islam with terrorist practices while Al-Qaeda links the US as Christian or a Judeo-Christian nation.[50] On the one hand, Al-Qaeda men who hijacked the planes on 9/11 saw the passengers and those working in the World Trade Center and Pentagon as “abjects” of Islam.[51] On the other hand, the US-led invasion of Afghanistan and then Iraq turned into wars of “Islamofacism” and a “crusade” to the divine in getting rid of evil.[52] Moreover, other attacks on innocent people based on cultural religious characteristics occur today: Muslims in the United States, Western Europe, or India, Kurds in Iraq, and Jews in France.[53] In other words, though socially constructed, these cultural religious characteristics become a unifying force against others not adhering to a particular truth.

Interestingly then, the idea of religious identity in this era of globalization may hold in-line with Huntington’s thesis. According to Huntington (1990), while conflict during the Cold War occurred between the Capitalist West and the Communist Bloc East, current and future conflicts are most likely to occur between the world’s major civilizations, and not the states, including Western, Latin American, Islamic, Sinic (Chinese), Hindu, Orthodox, Japanese, and the African.[54] In a broader sense, having paved the way for religions to come in direct contacts with one another, globalization has, indeed, brought religions to a circle of competition and conflicts. As long as religions see themselves as “world religions” and reinforce their specific identities, the chance for religions to avoid conflict among one another is grey.[55] Luckily, the final section brings some hope on how religions can use their existing principles as ways to overlook their differences.

Conclusion

In a time in which globalization has yet to fully complete its process, religions must use the communication easily available through advanced technology to focus more on the humane and pluralistic forms of their teachings—values such as human dignity and human freedom—as means to manage religious diversity and avoid violence. In other words, religious should be open to other traditions and what they can teach. In fact, though having “fixed texts,” the major world religions do not have “fixed beliefs,” “only fixed interpretations of those beliefs,”[56] meaning their beliefs can be “rediscovered, reinvented, and reconceptualized.”[57]

As interesting examples, in their attempt to create the tradition of nonviolence from diverse religions and cultures, three paradigmatic individuals—Leo Tolstoy, Mohandas Gandhi, and Martin Luther King, Jr.—have, indeed, “rediscovered, reinvented, and reconceptualized” the beliefs of the world’s major religions.[58] The three individuals indicate that “it is possible for narrative diversity to generate a shared ethic without sacrificing the diversity of particular religions.”[59]

For instance, although coming from a gentry class in Russia and receiving fame and fortune from his novels, Tolstoy converted to Christianity in part after reading a story about how a Syrian monk named Barlaam brought about the conversion of a young Indian prince named Josaphat, who gave up his wealth and family to seek an answer to aging, sickness, and death.[60] Deeply indebted in Buddhism for his conversion to Christianity, Tolstoy, attempting to live his life by the teachings of Jesus’ Sermon on the Mount, gave away all his wealth and spent the rest of his life serving the poor.[61] Nevertheless, the story about Barlaam and Josaphat has “worked its way into virtually all the world’s religions.”[62]

Similarly, Gandhi, when he encountered Tolstoy’s writings, drew his attention to the power of the Sermon on the Mount.[63] In encountering Jesus’ Sermon, Gandhi became motivated to “turn the great Hindu narrative from the Mahabharata, the Bhagavad Gita, in order to find the message of nonviolence within his own religion and culture.”[64] By finding that Tolstoy’s understanding of the Sermon on the Mount lacked “nonviolence as an active rather than a passive virtue . . . capable of producing an active resistance to evil,” he found it present in the Bhagavad Gita.[65] As a result, Ghandi transformed the Bhagavad Gita from a story that authorized killing to one of nonviolence reflected from the story of Jacob wrestling with the stranger and Jesus’ Sermon on the Mount.[66]

Lastly, Martin Luther King, Jr. also drew insight from Buddhism, Hinduism, Christianity, and Judaism.[67] For instance, connecting Gandhi with Jesus Christ, he saw Gandhi’s philosophy of nonviolence as similar to Jesus’ suffering on the cross.[68] Therefore, King’s theological theme was the idea that “unmerited suffering is redemptive,” meaning he constantly reminded blacks that they would experience a “season of suffering” before they would achieve justice.[69] In general terms, King’s theology focused on values grounded in religion—justice, love, and hope.[70] In short, as Tolstoy, Ghandi, and King illustrate, “narrative traditions are not mutually exclusive.”[71] They are connected through themes and, therefore, allow religions to engage in interreligious dialogue.

As this essay’s previous sections show, religions have, indeed, taken part in dialogues beforehand. As a further example, religious leaders gathered at the UN’s Millennium Peace Summit in September 2000 to mark the turn of the millennium.[72] A milestone in itself, as the UN is not a common ground in the sense of a ecumenical meeting inside a church, synagogue, or mosque but rather a global common ground, the Summit’s conversation encouraged that world’s religious communities stop fighting and arguing amongst themselves and begin working together for peace, justice, and social harmony.[73] As then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan addressed to the Summit, “Whatever your past, whatever your calling, and whatever the differences among you, your presence here at the United Nations signifies your commitment to our global mission of tolerance, development, and peace.”[74]

Moreover, as transnational corporations increasingly become actors in the international system, one could argue that religious communities have agreed on “the emerging global ethic” which consists of three major components: 1) corporations are prohibited from involving in bribes and corruption, 2) corporations are prohibited from discriminating on the grounds of race, religion, ethnicity, or gender in the conduct of business, and 3) corporations are prohibited from activities that pose a significant threat to human life and health.[75] Simply put, these components are, in themselves, religious values used to regulate the way transitional corporations increasingly engage in the global market.

The bottom line is that the pieces of interreligious dialogue to manage religious diversity and to avoid violence are there, but the problem may be of globalization’s intentional and/or unintentional consequence of making religions more conscious of themselves as “world religions,” as well as the undesirable consequences of disrupting traditional communities, causing economic marginalization, and bringing individuals mental stress—all reinforcing religious cultural characteristics and identities. Hence, the relationship between religion and globalization has brought new possibilities but also furthering challenges.

The globalist expansion of religion could be traced back to the colonial expansions of European powers starting in the 14th Century. While the search for spices was the initial push factor of the expansions, many Western “frontiersmen” found themselves settling in various areas all over the world—creating walled territories. Later, these frontiersmen conquered the surrounding areas, subjugating the local populace and making colonies. One way to subjugate the locals was through religion (Kim & Bhawuk, 2008). This was how Christianity was introduced to the inhabitants of all continents of the world.

Fast forward five decades, into the modern world, there is no need for physical occupation for resources to circulate around the world. The internet makes sure of that. In the same way, with wide access to the internet and convenient travel, religions and religious practices also circulate around the world.

With wide access to the internet and convenient travel, religions and religious practices also circulate around the world.

This spread creates a mix of not only religious beliefs but also the practices and cultures of the locals (Bhawuk, 2008). For example, here in the Philippines, while religious practices are modeled after the Spanish, there remain cultural practices that are unique to Filipino culture. These include offering food for the souls of the deceased to consume (a practice discouraged by the Catholic Church but still persists) and devotees crucifying themselves for penitence, among others.

Ironically, it is through this fast circulation that religious fundamentalism seems to spread (Salzman, 2008). This is not only observed in Islamic countries but also in countries with high percentages of other religions, such as fundamentalist Christians in the USA and fundamentalist Hindus in India. (Hall, 2002) In the Philippines alone, access to travel and internet communication allows Muslim fundamentalists in Mindanao to have outsourced training and armaments to terrorist cells outside the country. 

However, all is not lost. Globalization also promotes peace through religion and trade (Pyun & Lee, 2009). For example, in African countries, where terrorist organizations such as Boko Haram remain rampant, globalization in the form of religious aid and education remains a driving factor in the improvement of the quality of life in the continent (Amavila, Asongu, & Andres, 2017).

GLOBAL POPULATION AND MOBILITY

THE GLOBAL POPULATION AND MOBILITY  MIGRATION The movement of people from one place to another with the intentions of settling, permanently or temporarily at a new location.  CATEGORIES OF PEOPLE WHO MIGRATE •Emigrant – a person who is leaving one country to live in another.  •Immigrant – a person who is entering a country from another to make a new home.  •Refugee – a person who has moved to a new country because of a problem in their former home.  FOUR MODELS OF MIGRATION  •Classic Model: Immigration is encouraged by the countries of destination like USA, Canada and Australia. The only restriction is annual quotas.  •Colonial Model: Countries are more tolerant to immigration coming from their ex-colonies than other countries of origin. (i.e. immigration to England from the former British colonies) •Worker Model: Immigrants are accepted temporarily as guests workers to fulfil the demand within the labour market without citizenship.  •Illegal Model: Entering an industrialized country secretly and work without legal permission.  THE GLOBAL MIGRATION Why do people move?  • SOCIAL FACTORS  Social factors are things that affect someone’s lifestyle. These could include wealth, religion, buying habits, educational level, family size and structure and population density.  • CULTURAL FACTORS  The idea of culture is vital to understanding the implications for translation and despite the differences of opinion as to whether language is a part of culture or not, the two are connected. Culture range from syntax, ideologies, religion, language and dialect, art and literacy. 
 • ECONOMIC FACTORS  Lack of employment opportunities or differentials in employment opportunities and wages; the lure of a well-paid job in a wealthy country is a powerful driver of international migration. Lack of educational institutions across developing countries has also tremendously contributed to the reasons for migration.   • POLITICAL FACTORS  The unattractiveness of agricultural activities, disasters, lack of basic amenities (roads, electricity, portable water, and inadequate health care facilities) and industrial ventures in countries have also encouraged international migration.  • PUSH-PULL FACTOR  In geographical terms, the push-pull factors are those that drive people away from a place and draw people to a new location. A combination of push-pull factors helps determine migration or immigration of particular populations from one land to another.  ➢ PUSH FACTOR: REASONS TO LEAVE  Factors that help migrants decide to leave their home.   ➢ PULL FACTOR: REASONS TO MIGRATE  Factors that attract people and area where immigrants are going.          
MIGRATION AFFECTS BOTH THE PLACE OF ORIGIN AND THE PLACE OF DESTINATION ON THE VARIOUS ASPECTS SUCH AS ENVIRONMENTAL, ECONOMIC, HEALTH AND SOCIAL ASPECTS   Environmental Aspects  Migration of people has the direct effect on both, the place of origin and the place of destination. Problems like settlement, over-exploitation of resources, and the pollution of different kinds will be visible.   Economic Aspects  The consequence on the place of origin will be a loss of economically active groups of the population.  Health and Social Aspects  The place of destination are normally those places where facilities are made available to a limited extent so as to fulfill the needs of the native dwellers. However, the places overcrowd with the constant flow of migrants, and facilities and other needs become insufficient. 

GLOBAL POPULATION AND MOBILITY Global Population and mobility Population mobility have changed radically in  recent times, both in quantity and  quality:  “traditional”  (economic)  international  migration  is  now accompanied  by  new  types  of  mobility  (refugees  and  displaced  persons) caused by wars, persecution and environmental disasters. In  recent  years,  the  world  has  witnessed  an  intensification  of  population movements (IOM, 2017). Data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees  (UNHCR)  shows  that  while  the  stock  of  international  migrants increased from 69.3 million persons in 1960 to 247.6 million in 2015, the ratio of displaced persons to international migrants increased tenfold in that same period,  from  2.5%  to  25% (Figure  1).  These figures are highly  suggestive  of two related processes: on the one hand, the increasing scale of international migration worldwide and, on the other, the growth of other forms of mobility over  time.  For  instance,  the  number  of  displaced  persons  worldwide  grew from 1.5 million in 1960 to 60.5 million in 2015, a forty-fold increase. There has also been a change in the composition of these flows, with refugees losing their dominance among the displaced: in 2006, Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) due to conflicts already outnumbered refugees. This points to another interesting  feature  of  the  evolution  of  mobility  in  recent  years,  its  growing complexity  and  the  highly  heterogeneous  nature  of  the  movement  of individuals across space.       
Increased complexity Population movements have also become more complex in terms of their causes and consequences. The traditional idea of a migrant who opts for a well-defined migratory project has gradually been replaced by the figure of an agent whose aspirations, intentions, and opportunities for movement are shaped by a rapidly changing socio-political and economic context. Moreover, new events such as political conflicts and environmental disasters have created unprecedented challenges for understanding how and why individuals move, and what legal and humanitarian protection ought to be offered to them. While Afghanistan, Somalia and Sudan dominated the stock of refugees until the mid-2000s, the Syrian and South Sudanese conflicts have made their mark in recent years (Figure 2). The impact of the Syrian conflict on the mobility of its population has been dramatic since the very outset. Syria has dominated the yearly flows of refugees since 2011 and surpassed the historical dominance of Colombia as the country with the highest number of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in 2013. The scales of the yearly flows of IDPs for the other countries shown in Figure 2 mirror the outbreak of local conflicts.           
These  figures  reveal that  the  world  today is  a  lot  more complex  than  in  the years that  followed the  Second  World  War,  when  much  of  the  displacement was concentrated in Europe. The world was also less interconnected, making distances seem longer and destinations more uncertain. It was in this context that  the  United  Nations  Convention  Relating  to  the  Status  of  Refugees  was created in 1951. The Convention sought to guarantee protection to European citizens who, as a direct consequence of the War, had a well-founded fear of returning  to  their  country  of  origin  on  account  of  their  race,  religion, nationality,  social  group,  or  political  orientation.  Some  years  later,  the  1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees was an important step towards the ‘democratization’  of  these  protections,  removing  the  temporal  and geographical  restrictions  of  the  Convention  by  extending  the  right  to  seek protection (asylum) to any citizen, not only from Europe.  Since then, new dynamics and types of displacement have led to discussions on  the  need  to  retool  these  normative  instruments,  which  constitute  the central  elements  of  the  international  refugee  protection  system.  Some examples  of  the  increasing  complexity  of  these  new  movements  are  the growing  numbers  of  people  forced  to  leave  their  home  because  of  their inability to guarantee their socioeconomic reproduction or who are escaping from  conditions  analogous  to  war.  Displacement  caused  by  environmental factors is another visible example of this complexity (IDMC, 2017). These new motilities' highlight the need to develop regulations that are more consistent with  the  principles  contained  in  the  1948  Universal  Declaration  of  Human Rights. They also raise questions about the impact of these movements on the economies  of  the  countries  of  destination,  as  well  as  their  potential  for cultural and political conflicts.    
The  emergence  and  intensification  of  old  and  new  conflicts  and  crises  have affected  a  growing  number  of  countries  in  the  Global  South  such  as  Libya, Syria, Yemen, Venezuela, and the Northern Triangle of Central America. There has  also  been  a  significant  increase  in  the  numbers  of  people  displaced  by environmental disasters linked to climate change. It is estimated that in 2016 alone,  31.1  million  people  were  (internally)  displaced  by  conflict,  violence, and disasters: one person is forced to flee every second. Of these, 6.9 million were displaced by conflict and violence, mainly in Sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East, while 24.2 million were hit by climatic events such as typhoons in China  and  the  Philippines,  and  floods  in  Indonesia  and  the  Indian Subcontinent (IDMC, 2017).  The current world population is 7.8 billion as of November 2020 according to the  most  recent  United  Nations  estimates  elaborated  by  World  meter.  The term "World Population" refers to the human population (the total number of humans currently living) of the world.  GLOBAL CITY Global  city,  an  urban  centre  that  enjoys  significant  competitive  advantages and that serves as a hub within a globalized economic system GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHY Demography is the study of human populations – their size, composition and distribution  across  space  –  and  the  process  through  which  populations change. Births, deaths and migration are the 'big three' of demography, jointly producing population stability or change. GLOBAL MIGRATION a situation in which people go to live in foreign countries, especially in order to find work: Most global migration is from developing countries to developed ones 
THE GLOBAL CITY Who popularized the term global city? Saskia Sassen The term "global city", rather than "megacity", was popularized by sociologist Saskia Sassen in her 1991 work, The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo. 3 KEY TENDENCIES OF GLOBAL CITY:  One; is a concentration of wealth in the hands of owners, partners, and professionals associated with the high-end firms in this system  Second; is a growing disconnection between the city and its region.  Third; is the growth of a large marginalized population that has a very hard time earning a living in the marketplace defined by these high-end activities. In  the  age  of  globalization,  the  activities  of  production  are  scattered  on  a global  basis.  These  complex,  globalized  production  networks  require  new forms of financial and producer services to manage them. These services are often complex and require highly  specialized skills. Thus they are subject to agglomeration  economics,  and  tend  to  cluster  in  a  limited  number  of  cities. Because specialized talent and firms related to different specialties can cluster in  different  cities,  this  means  that  there  are  actually  a  quite  a  few  of  these specialized production nodes, because they don’t necessarily directly compete with each other, having different groupings of specialties. In this world then, a global  city  is  a  significant  production  point  of  specialized  financial  and producer services that make the globalized economy run.      
HOW TO IDENTIFY GLOBAL CITIES: The Institute for Urban Strategies at The Mori Memorial Foundation in Tokyo published another study called “The Global Power Index 2011.” ~   Economy  (Market  Attractiveness,  Economic  Vitality,  Business Environment, Regulations and Risk) ~   Research  and  Development  (Research  Background,  Readiness  for Accepting and Supporting Researchers, Research Achievement) ~   Cultural  Interaction  (Trendsetting  Potential,  Accommodation Environment,  Resources  of  Attracting  Visitors,  Dining  and  Shopping, Volume of Interaction) ~   Liveability (Working Environment, Cost of Living, Security and Safety, Life Support Functions) ~   Environment (Ecology, Pollution, Natural Environment) ~   Accessibility  (International  Transportation  Infrastructure,  Inner  City Transportation Infrastructure)     CHALLENGES OF A GLOBAL CITY 1. Environmental threats ~   Rapid  urbanization,  which  strains  basic  infrastructure,  coupled  with more  frequent  and  extreme  weather  events  linked  to  global  climate change  is  exacerbating  the  impact  of  environmental  threats.  Common environmental  threats  include  flooding,  tropical  cyclones  (to  which coastal cities are particularly vulnerable), heat waves and epidemics. 
Recommended for you

Document continues below
6
CW Module 2 - CONTEMPORARY WORLD LECTURES
CW Module 2 - CONTEMPORARY WORLD LECTURES
Contemporary Worl
100% (16)
4
Global Media Cultures - Lecture notes 1-4
Global Media Cultures - Lecture notes 1-4
Contemporary Worl
100% (15)
5
Lesson 4 Contemporary Global Governance
Lesson 4 Contemporary Global Governance
Contemporary Worl
100% (5)
9
C&W 101 Contemporary World
C&W 101 Contemporary World
Contemporary Worl
100% (1)
2. Resources ~   Cities  need  resources  such  as  water,  food  and  energy  to  be  viable. Urban  sprawl  reduces  available  water  catchment  areas,  agricultural lands  and  increases  demand  for  energy.  While  better  application  of technology  can  boost  agricultural  productivity  and  ensure  more efficient transmission of electricity, many cities will continue to struggle to provide these resources to an ever-growing urban population. 3. Inequality ~   When it comes to the provision of basic resources and resilience against environmental  threats,  the  forecast  is  uneven  for  different  groups  of urban  inhabitants.  As  the  number  of  urban  super-rich  grows,  many cities will also see increased numbers of urban poor. 4. Technology ~   Technology will be increasingly used in the development and running of  cities  of  the  future.  Smart  planning  used  in  Singapore  can  harness solar energy for use in housing estates and create man-made wetlands for  ecological  balance.  Smart  mobility  technology  can  alleviate  traffic gridlocks which plague many cities. 5. Governance ~   Future  cities  offer  immense  possibilities  to  enrich  the  lives  of  their inhabitants  even  as  the  challenges  are  stark.  To  make  the  best  out  of inevitable  urbanization,  good  governance  is  imperative.  Cities  will increase in size and their populations become more diverse. Governing these  cities  will,  therefore,  be  progressively  complex  and  require  the most dedicated of minds.    
PROS AND CONS LIVING IN A GLOBAL CITY  PROS: ~  Meeting New People ~   Activities ~   Public Transportation ~   Big Events ~   Shared Experience ~   Free Activities ~   Higher Salaries ~   More Job Opportunities ~   Lots of Dining Options ~   Close Proximity to Airports CONS: ~  High Cost of Living ~   Noise ~   Lack of Space ~   Lack of Parking ~   Higher Auto Insurance      Premiums ~   Higher Crime Rates  
GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHY DEMOGRAPHY ~  The word ‘Demography’ is a combination of two Greek words, ‘Demos’ meaning people and ‘Graphy’ meaning science. Thus demography is the science of people. ~   Demography  is  the  study  of  human  populations  –  their  size, composition  and  distribution  across  space  –  and  the  process  through which  populations  change.  Births,  deaths  and  migration  are  the  'big three' of demography, jointly producing population stability or change. ~  Demographics  is  the  collection  and  analysis  of  broad  characteristics about  groups  of  people  and  population.    Demographic  data  is  very useful for businesses to understand how to market consumers and plan strategically for future trends in consumer demand. The combination of the internet, big data, and artificial intelligence is greatly amplifying the usefulness and application of demographics as a tool for marketing and business strategy. What is demographic? ~   Demographics  are  the  study  of  a  population  based  on  factors  such  as age,  race,  and  sex.  Demographic  data  refers  to  socio-economic information  expressed  statistically,  also  including  employment, education,  income,  marriage  rates,  birth  and  death  rates  and  more factors.  Governments,  corporations,  and  nongovernment  organizations use demographics to learn more about a population's characteristics for many  purposes,  including  policy  development  and  economic  market research. Understanding Demographic   Demographics  are  the  collection  and  study  of  data  regarding  the  general characteristics  of  specific  populations.  It  is  frequently  used  as  a  business marketing tool to determine the best way to reach customers and assess their behaviour. By using demographics, dividing a population helps businesses to 
determine  the  size  of  a  future  market.  The  use  of  demographics  helps  to decide  whether  its  goods  and  services  are  aimed  at  the  most  relevant customers of that business. Types of Demographic Information  Demographic data is gathered for  corporate marketing purposes to  create a profile  for  the  customer  base  of  the  company. In  demographic  research,  the common  variables  that  are  collected  include  age,  sex,  level  of  income, ethnicity,  job,  location,  homeownership,  and  level  of  education.  To  classify consumers,  demographic  information  makes  some  generalizations  about groups. Collecting data on interests, hobbies, lifestyle and more are additional demographic  considerations.  When  conducting  a  population  survey, government agencies collect data and can use the demographic data to predict economic trends and population growth to better manage resources. How Demographic Information is used ~   The use of demographics and the demographic domain is common. ~   Governments can use demographics to control and evaluate the effects of  their  policies  and  to  decide  if  a  policy  has  had  both  positive  and negative effects or has had unintended effects. ~   Most large companies conduct demographic research to determine how to  market  their  product  or  service  and  best  market  to  the  target audience. ~   This data allows the business to determine how much money to devote to manufacturing and advertising.      
GLOBAL MIGRATION REASONS FOR GLOBAL MIGRATION:  ECONOMIC MIGRATIO  SOCIAL MIGRATION  POLITICAL  ENVIRONMENTAL COUNTRY LOSING PEOPLE: ADVANTAGES:  MONEY SENT HOME BY MIGRANT  DECREASES PRESSURE ON JOBS AND RESOURCES         MIGRANTS MAY RETURN WITH NEW SKILLS. COUNTRY LOSING PEOPLE: DISADVANTAGES:  PEOPLE  WORKING  AGE,  MOVE  OUT.  REDUCING  THE  SIZE  OF COUNTRY’S POTENTIAL WORKPLACE.    GENDER  IMBALANCES  ARE  CAUSED  AS  IT  IS  TYPICALLY  MEN  WHO SEEK  TO  FIND  EMPLOYMENT  ELSEWHERE.  WOMEN  AND CHILDREEN ARE LEFT.  BRAIN DRAIN IF MANY SKILLED WORKERS LEAVE.  HOST COUNTRY: ADVANTAGES:  A RICHER AND MORE DIVERSE CULTURE.  HELPS REDUCE ANY LABOUR SHORTAGE  MIGRANTS ARE MORE PREPARED TO TAKE ON LESS PAID, LOW SKILLED JOBS.   
DISADVATAGES:  INCREASING COST OF SERVICES SUCH AS HEALTH CARE AND EDUCATION.  OVERCROWDING  DISAGREEMENTS BETWEEN DIFFERENT RELIGIOUS AND CULTURES 

Geographic mobility is the measure of how populations and goods move over time. Geographic mobility, population mobility, or more simply mobility is also a statistic that measures migration within a population. Commonly used in demography and human geography, it may also be used to describe the movement of animals between populations. These moves can be as large scale as international migrations or as small as regional commuting arrangements. Geographic mobility has a large impact on many sociological factors in a community and is a current topic of academic research.[1] It varies between different regions depending on both formal policies and established social norms, and has different effects and responses in different societies. Population mobility has implications ranging from administrative changes in government and impacts on local economic growth to housing markets and demand for regional services.

Contents
Measurement
Edit
National geographic mobility data is available from census and public government records in the United States, the European Union, China and many other countries. International mobility data is available from tourism statistics and transportation carriers information. On the basis of these sources, the Global Transnational Mobility Dataset offers estimates of the number of people moving country-to-country on a yearly basis.[2] .

United States
Edit
Mobility estimates in the Current Population Survey (CPS), produced by the United States Census Bureau, define mobility status on the basis of a comparison between the place of residence of each individual to the time of the March survey and the place of residence one year earlier. Non-movers are all people who were living in the same house at the end of the migration period and the beginning of the migration period. Movers are all people who were living in a different house at the end of the period rather than at the beginning. They are further classified as to whether they were living in the same or different county, state, region, or were movers from abroad. Movers are also categorized by whether they moved within or between central cities, suburbs, and non-metropolitan areas of the United States.[3]

The CPS includes information on reasons for a move. These include work-related factors, such as a job transfer, job loss or looking for work, and wanting to be closer to work. Housing factors include wanting to own a home, rather than rent, seeking a better home or better neighborhood, or wanting cheaper housing. Additional mobility factors include attending college, changes in marital status, retirement, or health-related moves.

European Union
Edit
The Eurobarometer survey measures mobility in a similar manner to the US census. Direct comparison of the two is difficult due to social constraints of traveling between countries in the European Union not encountered with interstate travel within the United States. Differences include language barriers, cultural resistance, and the added hurdle of international labour laws.[4]

China
Edit
Several scholarly surveys have been conducted to measure geographic mobility in China, but no single comprehensive census is available. Since the year 2000 the National Bureau of Statistics of China has added migrant worker estimates to their annual household survey.[5] The Chinese Development Research Center of the State Council also undertook a study in 2010 characterizing the scope of migration for work and relevant statistics of that population. The survey measured demographics such as age, education level, job type, income, expenses, housing, and leisure activities.[6]

Other measures
Edit
Population turnover is a related statistic that measures gross moves in relation to the size of the population, for example movement of residents into and out of a geographic location between census counts.

Influencing factors
Edit
Economic reasons
Edit
Most theoretical models attribute the desire to relocate to the impact of wages and salary and employment on personal expected earnings.[7] The prospect of gainful employment in another region leads to movement to capitalize on new opportunities and resources unavailable in the original community. Perceptions, gaps in prospective incomes, availability of accurate information, and geographic distance all play a part in the decision to migrate.[8] Studies have shown that unemployment rates statistically correlate to measured migrations in the EU (a relatively mobile society).[7] Further, there is evidence that comparable statistical results can be obtained using labor availability interchangeably with population migration data.[7]

Surveys show potential movers also face anxiety about the prospects of actually finding a suitable job in their new location.[4] The capacity to migrate depends on current income or access to credit to support the move, and is always up to chance.[8] Economists have shown that the decline in home values in the US in the late 2000s diminished state-to-state migration, with roughly 110,000 to 150,000 fewer individuals migrating across state lines in any given year.[9] Socialized unemployment insurance programs help to increase individual liquidity and lessen the burden of search costs and movement risk.[10] Research has shown that overall the presence of social insurance does not have a strong effect on the rate of personal movement because while it lowers relative movement costs, it also increases the opportunity costs of movement.[10]

Current international laws present challenges to ideal geographic mobility. Migrants must have a physical means (legal or illegal) over which to travel to a new country.[8] An increase in individual income was shown to increase access to long distance transportation and enable individuals more freedom of travel.[11] Seeking a job in another country often requires sponsorship, visas, or may not even be possible in a given situation.[4] Government support is in no way guaranteed for international geographic mobility. Existing language and cultural barriers also severely hamper geographic mobility on both regional and national levels.[4]

Personal preferences
Edit
Personal preference factors besides economic logic can exert a strong influence on an individual's geographic mobility. Concerns such as climate, the strength of regional housing markets, cultural comfort, family, and local social capital all play into the decision to move or not.[7] Individualization of the job market in industrializing countries has led to an increased preference among workers to follow market opportunities.[12] Media driven self-awareness and highly individualistic symbolism exported from the western world have allowed people to imagine themselves living completely different lifestyles.[12] Western media glamorizes the image of the self-sufficient youth, showing examples of both men and women who lead strong, individualistic, empowered lifestyles. Globalization has destabilized previously immutable social institutions, shifting cultural value away from old traditions to new more individualistic and market friendly ideas. This combined with a privatization and individualization of labor has in many ways made fluidity more the norm than structure.[12]

The availability of geographic mobility can also directly affect an individual's self-empowerment. Large numbers of women in South Korea, Japan, and China are taking advantage of newly available travel opportunities: experiencing life overseas and touring or studying.[12] In South Korea progressive educational reforms have led to large numbers of women receiving higher level degrees, but structural inequality in the job market makes it difficult for them to get middle or upper class jobs. 93% of women graduate from high school and 63% from college, but only 46.7% of college grads are employed.[12] Further, those employed women suffer from a 76% wage differential compared to like qualified men.[12] Japan has similar structural issues where half of the employed women in the country only work part-time.[12] Geographic relocation presents social opportunities to both seek a more favorable job climate and a social order more accepting of educated women.[12] The prospect of greater control over their own lives and careers draws many of these young women to build their futures away from their immediate surroundings: 80% of Japanese people studying abroad are women.[12]

Social forces
Edit
Social forces can also foster individual geographic mobility. Support from the community can increase the probability of relocation—it has been shown that the chances of migration in India improve when groups of houses from the same sub-caste all decide to move together.[13] Worldly exposure also increase one's tendency to be mobile. Public health studies measured higher geographic mobility among female sex workers who: drank, had experienced violence, had worked for more than four years, and had a regular non-paying partner than those who did not.[14] American World War II veterans, who had traveled to distant continents and then returned, were more willing to relocate for jobs than the previous generation of Americans.[15]

Demographically, research shows that one's level of education tends to correlate to higher mobility, especially among university graduates.[4] Youth and a lack of a family or children correlate to increased mobility too, with the peak in mobility occurring in the mid to late 20s for populations surveyed in Europe.[4]

Economic effects
Edit
Labor supply
Edit
Geographical mobility of labor allows the labor supply to respond to regional disparities, limiting economic inefficiencies. Low labor mobility quickly leads to inequality between static economic regions and a misappropriation of labor resources.[7] Geographic mobility can help alleviate asymmetric shocks between regions with diversified economies, like in the European Union.[7] A mobile population allows a region to shed workers when jobs are scarce and gives those workers the opportunity seek employment elsewhere where opportunities might be better. While an increase in geographic mobility increases overall economic efficiency, the increased competition for jobs on the local level in otherwise prosperous regions could lead to higher unemployment than before the migration.[4]

Female labor supply rates actually have larger statistical effect on mobility than male rates.[7] Traditionally male jobs in the developing world have much more inelastic demand than female ones, so the variations in the female rate lead to more drastic changes in employment that more strongly affect mobility.[7]

Resource allocation
Edit
Labor mobility theoretically leads to a more balanced and economically efficient distribution of jobs and resources overall. Individual employees can better match their skills to potential jobs on the open job market.[4] They can seek out ideal jobs instead of artificially limiting themselves to their geographic areas. The opportunity to study abroad is a major vehicle of entry to western countries for Asian women. Moving to the West to study is a common career move for Asian women in their 20s, allowing them to abandon the traditional marriage track and pursue economic ventures outside the home.[12]

On the other hand, mobility can also have negative consequences on a region facing widespread emigration. Brain drain and labor resource diminishment make it more difficult for troubled regions to recover after an economic stumble.[4] Additional people migrating into a region can also place extra stress on existing social infrastructure for services like healthcare, welfare, and unemployment.[4]

Remittances
Edit
Geographic mobility allows for remittances from distant family members back to support local needs. Loans and transfers can flow back from migrated members of a community to sustain those who remain behind.[13] Remittances are one of the primary benefits of migration to the country of origin, not only substantially enhancing local family income but also spilling over into benefits of increased capital flow in the entire local economy.[8] Remittances play a large role in sustaining the economies of many developing nations, for example bringing over US$1bn into the Philippines every month and eclipsing the entire tourism profit of Morocco.[16]

Female mobility
Edit
Empowerment
Edit
With heightened self-awareness, educated women hope to grasp opportunities from moving, leading to increased female individualization and empowerment.[12] Given access to travel, international education provides one of few avenues for women in China to live non-traditional personally emancipated lives.[12] In Japan geographic mobility offers an opportunity to gain real job experience and advance a career too. Japanese society places a significant social pressure on women to get married, but many young women feel the need to “escape” and can find their independent selves in another setting.[12]

Many migrants do choose to continue to benefit and rely on older home ties though. These women cannot change behavior too much from social norms or risk being cut off.[13] Studies show that household choices in India are affected by distance from the ancestral home, especially within the caste system.[13]

There are also other new risks for women in new locations. Female sex workers have statistically higher sexually transmitted diseases and HIV rates when more mobile.[14] There is also potential for male backlash in a new setting. Domestic violence can be sparked by power struggles when newly empowered women regain some control traditionally held by men.[13]

Participation
Edit
Female labor participation is vital to improving regional disparities in a competitive world and will increase in value over time.[7] Women's participation and creative energy is vital for the success of economies on a global scale. Female labor participation can act as a substitute for more generalized labor mobility too. In the European Union women provide a dynamic substitute for male labor with fluctuations in the economy. This allows for more geographic stability while maintaining the variability of a flexible labor economy.[7] When families do migrate, woman often get employed first and become the breadwinner for the home. Even if this only lasts for a duration of time, the experience is empowering and helps shape social dynamics within the home.[13]

Often a relocation is primarily motivated by lack of any better opportunities in their prior situation though. Many of the women go through the trial of moving and starting over due to economic and social circumstances outside of her control.[12] Research also seems to indicate that women and minorities migrating into a new area often act as economic substitutes for local minorities rather than paving their own new ground.[7] Female income effects from migration will only kick in if there are sufficient differences between males and females too, so long term changes will likely not happen quickly.[13]

Transportation access
Edit
Women have traditionally had more limited access to improved means of personal transportation and thus had more limited local mobility.[11] Women surveyed in England were less likely overall than men to have drivers licenses and took longer to get to key destinations. Women often seek work closer to home compared to men, taking jobs in a more geographically confined area and relying more on non-automobile transportation.[17] Access to personal transportation can improve women's choice of feasible destinations and decrease average trip time.[11]

Effects on children, family, and education
Edit
Increased geographic mobility can offer new opportunities to previously isolated groups. In India, increasing mobility allows families the chance to strengthen family ties by sending children to traditional homes or expand educational opportunities with options to attend urban schools.[13] Additional economic freedom bolstered by additional capital from remittances can allow children to stay in school longer without having to worry about supporting the core family.[16]

Increased geographic mobility and long distance moves do place strains on the household and family.[18] The loss of established strong ties decreases social support and can lower productivity, especially among adolescents.[19] Geographic isolation from previous relationships increases personal dependence on the nuclear family unit and can lead to power unbalances within the household.[20]

Migration for work allows the migrants themselves to develop new skills and receive new technical training abroad.[8] Migrants surveyed in Australia and the US have lower rates of continual training than their native born peers as a whole, but are likely to continue gaining technical skills after establishing an initial technical aptitude. The appeal of new educational opportunities to migrants also loses appeal with age; older movers see less of an incentive to spend time to improve upon their existing skills.[21]

Increased global mobility has helped to destabilize the prospects of young people looking for reliable work and led to a greater assumption of risk on behalf of young people.[22] Coping strategies push them to put off long-term commitments, decreasing the formation of families and lowering birth rates. Labor market volatility increases the dangers of settling down since incomes are cannot be relied upon long term. Women in the workplace also face more disincentives to having children since they could be more easily replaced if forced to leave their job temporarily.

Effects on culture
Edit
Cultural exchange
Edit
Increased geographic mobility increases the depth and quality of cultural exchange between communities.[4] Travel and cooperation bring people together across cultural divides and facilitate the trade of customs and ideas. New community members bring unique talents and skills that can improve overall services and bring additional opportunity to an area.[23] Additional population "churn" can also increase diversity and lower tensions that would arise otherwise with large concentrations of particular demographic groups.[23] On the other hand, accelerated cultural exchange can dilute existing customs and cause social friction between competing immigrating populations too.[4] Residents in communities with a large percentage of highly mobile occupants also worry about long term social cohesion.[23] Rapid turnover can lead to cultural isolation and sometimes prevents neighbors from building close cohesive relationships.[23]

Social networks
Edit
Increasing long range personal mobility tends to lead to geographic expansion of an individual's support network.[24] Long-distance connections require more time to visit and minimizes the occurrence of unplanned social interaction. Increased mobility can decrease an individual's attachment to a local community and weaken local support networks. People often turn to information technology to maintain connections across distance, strengthening distance relationships and allowing people to pursue career opportunities despite geographic distance from a partner.

GLOBAL CITY

A global city, also known as a power city, world city, alpha city, or world center, is a city that serves as a primary node in the global economic network. The concept originates from geography and urban studies, based on the thesis that globalization has created a hierarchy of strategic geographic locations with varying degrees of influence over finance, trade, and culture worldwide.[1] The global city represents the most complex and significant hub within the international system, characterized by links binding it to other cities that have direct, tangible effects on global socioeconomic affairs.[2]

The criteria of a global city have varied over time and depending on the source;[3] common features include a high degree of urban development, a large population, the presence of major multinational companies, a significant and globalized financial sector, well-developed and internationally linked transportation infrastructure, local or national economic dominance, high quality educational and research institutions, and a globally influential output of ideas, innovations, or cultural products. Quintessential examples, based on most indices and research, include New York City, London, Paris, and Tokyo.

Contents
Origin and terminology
Edit
The term global city was popularized by sociologist Saskia Sassen in her 1991 book, The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo.[4] Prior to that, various other terms were used to describe urban centers with approximate features. The term world city, meaning a city heavily involved in global trade, appeared in a May 1886 description of Liverpool, by The Illustrated London News;[5] British sociologist and geographer Patrick Geddes likewise used the term in 1915.[6] The term megacity entered common use in the late 19th or early 20th century, with the earliest documented example being a publication by the University of Texas in 1904.[7] In the 21st century, the various terms are usually focused on a city's financial power and high technology infrastructure, with other factors becoming less relevant.[8][9]

Criteria
Edit

Manhattan, the core area of New York City, an Alpha++ global city, where there are several characteristic elements of global cities[10] like worldwide influential economic (New York Stock Exchange) and cultural (Broadway) centers, headquarters of international political organizations (UN headquarters), world renowned museums (the Met Museum, MOMA, Guggenheim Museum), and worldwide-known landmarks (Times Square, Empire State Building, Central Park)
Competing groups have developed multiple alternative methods to classify and rank world cities and to distinguish them from non-world cities.[6] Although there is a consensus on the leading world cities,[11] the chosen criteria affect which other cities are included.[6] Selection criteria may be based on a yardstick value (e.g., if the producer-service sector is the largest sector then city X is a world city)[6] or on an imminent determination (if the producer-service sector of city X is greater than the combined producer-service sectors of N other cities then city X is a world city.)[6] Cities can fall from their respective rankings, as in the case of cities that have become less cosmopolitan and less internationally renowned in the current era.

Characteristics
Edit
Although criteria are variable and fluid, typical characteristics of world cities include:[12]

The most prominent criterion has been providing a variety of international financial services,[13] notably in finance, insurance, real estate, banking, accountancy, and marketing; and their amalgamation of financial headquarters, a stock exchange, and other major financial institutions.
Headquarters of numerous multinational corporations.
Domination of the trade and economy of a large surrounding area
Major manufacturing centers with port and container facilities
Considerable decision-making power daily and at a global level
Centers of new ideas and innovation in business, economics, and culture.
Centers of digital and other media and communications for global networks
Dominance of the national region with great international significance
High percentage of residents employed in the services sector and information sector
High-quality educational institutions, including renowned universities and research facilities; and attracting international student attendance[14]
Multi-functional infrastructure offering some of the best legal, medical, and entertainment facilities in the country
High diversity in language, culture, religion, and ideologies
Rankings
Edit
Global city rankings are numerous, with one study suggesting as many as 300 global cities worldwide.[15] New York City, London, Tokyo, and Paris are notably the most prominent metropolises mentioned in this respect.[16][17] They have been ranked in the top four positions in the Global Cities Index and Global Power City Index since both indices' inception in 2008, with New York and London rotating for the first position over the last ten years exclusively in the top two spots.

GaWC study
Edit
Main article: Globalization and World Cities Research Network
Global city is located in EarthNew YorkNew YorkParisParisLondonLondonTokyoTokyoBeijingBeijingHong KongHong KongSingaporeSingaporeShanghaiShanghaiDubaiDubai
Top global cities per the GaWC 2020 rankings. Shown are "Alpha ++" cities (marked in gold) and "Alpha +" cities (marked in red).[18]
vte

Jon Beaverstock, Richard G. Smith, and Peter J. Taylor established the Globalization and World Cities Research Network (GaWC). A list of world cities in the GaWC Research Bulletin 5 is ranked by their connectivity through four "advanced producer services": accountancy, advertising, banking/finance, and law.[11] The GaWC inventory identifies three levels of global cities and several sub-ranks,[19] although the authors caution that "concern for city rankings operates against the spirit of the GaWC project" [emphasis in original].[20]

The 2004 rankings added several new indicators while continuing to rank city-economics more heavily than political and cultural factors. The 2008 version of the list, similar to the 1998 version, is sorted into categories of Alpha world cities (with four sub-categories), Beta world cities (three sub-categories), Gamma world cities (three sub-categories), and cities with High sufficiency and Sufficiency presence. The cities in the top three classifications in the 2020 edition are as follows:[21]

Alpha ++
Edit
United Kingdom London
United States New York City
Alpha +
Edit
Hong Kong Hong Kong
Singapore Singapore
China Shanghai
China Beijing
United Arab Emirates Dubai
France Paris
Japan Tokyo
Alpha
Edit
Australia Sydney
United States Los Angeles
Canada Toronto
India Mumbai
Netherlands Amsterdam
Italy Milan
Germany Frankfurt
Mexico Mexico City
Brazil São Paulo
United States Chicago
Malaysia Kuala Lumpur
Spain Madrid
Russia Moscow
Indonesia Jakarta
Belgium Brussels
Global Cities Index
Edit
In 2008, the American journal Foreign Policy, working with the consulting firm A.T. Kearney and the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, published a ranking of global cities based on consultation with Saskia Sassen, Witold Rybczynski, and others.[22] Foreign Policy noted that "the world's biggest, most interconnected cities help set global agendas, weather transnational dangers, and serve as the hubs of global integration. They are the engines of growth for their countries and the gateways to the resources of their regions."[23] The ranking is based on 27 metrics across five dimensions: business activity, human capital, information exchange, cultural experience, and political engagement.[24] Since 2015, it has been published with a separate index, the Global Cities Outlook, which is a projection of a city's potential based on rate of change in 13 indicators across four dimensions: personal well-being, economics, innovation, and governance. The top ranked cities in 2022 are listed below:[25]

United States New York City
United Kingdom London
France Paris
Japan Tokyo
China Beijing
United States Los Angeles
United States Chicago
Australia Melbourne
Singapore Singapore
Hong Kong Hong Kong
Global City Competitiveness Index
Edit
In 2012, the Economist Intelligence Unit (The Economist Group) ranked the competitiveness of global cities according to their demonstrated ability to attract capital, businesses, talent, and visitors.[26]

Global Cities Initiative
Edit
A study by Brookings Institution conducted in 2016 introduced its own typology, sorting global cities into seven categories: Global Giants, Asian Anchors, Emerging Gateways, Factory China, Knowledge Capitals, American Middleweights, and International Middleweights.[27]

The Global Giants classification includes wealthy, extremely large metropolitan areas that are the largest cities in developed nations. They are hubs for financial markets and major corporations, and serve as key nodes in global flows of capital and of talent.

United Kingdom London
United States Los Angeles
United States New York City
Japan Osaka–Kobe
France Paris
Japan Tokyo
Global City Lab
Edit
An analysis report compiled by the Global City Lab of the Global Top 500 Cities was released in New York on 30 December 2021.[28]

The top 10 of the "2021 Global Top 500 Cities" by brand value were as follows:

United States New York City
United Kingdom London
Japan Tokyo
France Paris
Singapore Singapore
Australia Sydney
United States Los Angeles
Canada Toronto
China Shanghai
Hong Kong Hong Kong
Global Economic Power Index
Edit
The Global Economic Power Index reflecting three dimensions of economic power was introduced in 2012.[29] In 2015, the second Global Economic Power Index, a meta list compiled by Richard Florida, was published by The Atlantic (distinct from a namesake list[30] published by the Martin Prosperity Institute), with city composite rank based on five other lists.[30][31]

The top 10 global cities in 2015 were as follows:

United States New York City
United Kingdom London
Japan Tokyo
Hong Kong Hong Kong
France Paris
Singapore Singapore
United States Los Angeles
South Korea Seoul
Austria Vienna
Sweden Stockholm & Canada Toronto
Global Financial Centres Index
Edit
Main article: Global Financial Centres Index
Strength as a financial center has become one of the pre-eminent indicators of a global city's ranking. As of March 2023,[32] the cities representing the top ten financial centers according to the Global Financial Centres Index by the think tank China Development Institute and analytics firm Z/Yen were:[33]

United States New York City
United Kingdom London
Singapore Singapore
Hong Kong Hong Kong
United States San Francisco
United States Los Angeles
China Shanghai
United States Chicago
United States Boston
South Korea Seoul
Global Power City Index
Edit
The Tokyo-based Institute for Urban Strategies at The Mori Memorial Foundation, issued a comprehensive study of global cities in 2008. They are ranked in six categories: economy, research and development, cultural interaction, livability, environment, and accessibility, with 70 individual indicators among them. The top ten world cities are also ranked by subjective categories, including manager, researcher, artist, visitor and resident.[34]

The top 10 cities in the 2022 Global Power City Index were:[34]

United Kingdom London
United States New York City
Japan Tokyo
France Paris
Singapore Singapore
Netherlands Amsterdam
South Korea Seoul
Germany Berlin
Australia Melbourne
China Shanghai
The Wealth Report
Edit
"The Wealth Report" (a global perspective on prime property and wealth) is made by the London-based estate agent Knight Frank LLP and the Citi Private Bank. The report includes a "Global Cities Survey", evaluating which cities are considered the most important to the world's HNWIs (high-net-worth individuals, having over $25 million of investable assets each). For the Global Cities Survey, Citi Private Bank's wealth advisors, and Knight Frank's luxury property specialists were asked to name the cities that they considered the most important to HNWIs, in regard to "economic activity", "political power", "knowledge and influence", and "quality of life".[35][36]

Most important cities to UHNWIs in 2022:[37]

United Kingdom London
France Paris & United States New York City
United States Los Angeles
Japan Tokyo
United States Chicago
Singapore Singapore
Hong Kong Hong Kong
Canada Toronto
China Beijing
The World's Most Talked About Cities
Edit
A study by ING Media, a London-based built environment communications firm, has ranked 250 global cities by total online mentions across social media and online news for 2019. It found that a fifth of digital mentions were for Tokyo, New York City, London, and Paris, identifying these as the world's super brands.[38][39] The Top 10 in the 2019 edition were:[40]

Japan Tokyo
United States New York City
United Kingdom London
France Paris
Spain Madrid
United Arab Emirates Dubai
Italy Rome
Spain Barcelona
South Korea Seoul
Japan Osaka

global city, an urban centre that enjoys significant competitive advantages and that serves as a hub within a globalized economic system. The term has its origins in research on cities carried out during the 1980s, which examined the common characteristics of the world’s most important cities. However, with increased attention being paid to processes of globalization during subsequent years, these world cities came to be known as global cities. Linked with globalization was the idea of spatial reorganization and the hypothesis that cities were becoming key loci within global networks of production, finance, and telecommunications. In some formulations of the global city thesis, then, such cities are seen as the building blocks of globalization. Simultaneously, these cities were becoming newly privileged sites of local politics within the context of a broader project to reconfigure state institutions.

Early research on global cities concentrated on key urban centres such as London, New York City, and Tokyo. With time, however, research has been completed on emerging global cities outside of this triad, such as Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Houston, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Paris, São Paulo, Sydney, and Zürich. Such cities are said to knit together to form a global city network serving the requirements of transnational capital across broad swathes of territory.

The rise of global cities has been linked with two globalization-related trends: first, the expansion of the role of transnational corporations (TNCs) in global production patterns and, second, the decline of mass production along Fordist lines and the concomitant rise of flexible production centred within urban areas. These two trends explain the emergence of networks of certain cities serving the financial and service requirements of TNCs while other cities suffer the consequences of deindustrialization and fail to become “global.” Global cities are those that therefore become effective command-and-coordination posts for TNCs within a globalizing world economy. Such cities have also assumed a governance role at the local scale and within wider configurations of what some commentators have termed the “glocalization” of state institutions. This refers to processes in which certain national state functions of organization and administration have been devolved to the local scale. An example of this would be London. Since the 1980s London has consolidated its position as a global banking and financial centre, de-linked from the national economy.

The global city thesis poses a challenge to state-centric perspectives on contemporary international political economy because it implies the disembedding of cities from their national territorial base, so that they occupy an extraterritorial space. Global cities, it is suggested, have more interconnectedness with other cities and across a transnational field of action than with the national economy. Global cities are also said to share many of the same characteristics because of their connectedness and shared experiences of globalization. They all exhibit clear signs of deindustrialization. They possess the concentration of financial and service industries within their spatial boundaries, as well as the concentration of large pools of labour. On the downside, many also share experiences of class and ethnic conflict. They often have segmented labour markets in which employees of key industries enjoy well-paid and consumerist lifestyles while a lower stratum of workers staffs less well-paid, more precarious, and less attractive positions within the urban economy. It has been further argued that the promotion of global cities runs the risk of economically marginalizing nonurban populations within the national economy.

Although global cities are interconnected, embedded as they are in global production and financial networks, they are also locked into competition with one another to command increasing resources and to attract capital. To successfully compete, local governments have been keen to promote their cities as global. Such cities have been marketed as “entrepreneurial” centres, sites of innovation in the knowledge economy, and as being rich with cultural capital. A common strategy has been to stress the multiethnic qualities of a city, for example. This is intended to stress its cosmopolitan and global character and to disassociate the city from its actual territorial, ethnic, or cultural setting. Such cities also regularly compete to host world events of considerable prestige that present further economic opportunities, such as the Olympic Games.

There has been some skepticism regarding the global city thesis in its simplest formulation. On a qualitative level, some scholars questioned whether global cities are indeed new phenomena and pointed to the long-standing existence of similar economic centres over time. One can think of Florence during the Renaissance, for example, or Manchester during the Industrial Revolution. Other commentators questioned whether the ascendance of global cities implies state decline along zero-sum lines. These skeptics argued that a more complex and interdependent relationship exists between the state and cities under its national jurisdiction. Indeed, national governments can play a proactive role in the promotion of key urban centres as global cities. Correspondingly, it is possible that global cities occupy the forefront position within a hierarchy of cities and local spaces that together constitute the national economy. Such a perspective would appear to transcend a dichotomizing view of global cities and the national state.

A global city or world city are a concept which postulates that globalisation can be broken down in terms of strategic geographic locales that see global processes being created, facilitated and enacted. The most complex of these entities is the "global city", whereby the linkages binding a city have a direct and tangible effect on global affairs through more than just socio-economic means, with influence in terms of culture, or politics. The terminology of "global city", as opposed to megacity, is thought to have been first coined by Saskia Sassen in reference to London, New York and Tokyo in her 1991 work The Global City.


General characteristics
It has been argued that global cities are those sharing the following characteristics:

International, first-name familiarity; whereby a city is recognised without the need for a political subdivision. For example. although there are numerous cities and other political entities with the name Paris or variations on it, one would say "Paris", not "Paris, France".
Active influence and participation in international events and world affairs; for example, New York City is home to the United Nations headquarters complex and consequently contains a vast majority of the permanent missions to the UN.
A fairly large population (the centre of a metropolitan area with a population of at least one million, typically several million).
A major international airport (for example, London Heathrow Airport) that serves as an established hub for several international airlines.
An advanced transportation system that includes several freeways and/or a large mass transit network offering multiple modes of transportation ( rapid transit, light rail, regional rail, ferry, or bus).
In the West, several international cultures and communities (such as a Chinatown, a Little Italy, or other immigrant communities). In other parts of the world, cities which attract large foreign businesses and related expatriate communities; for example, Singapore, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo, and Moscow.
International financial institutions, law firms, corporate headquarters (especially conglomerates), and stock exchanges (for example the London Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange or the Tokyo Stock Exchange) that have influence over the world economy.
An advanced communications infrastructure on which modern trans-national corporations rely, such as fiberoptics, Wi-Fi networks, cellular phone services, and other high-speed lines of communications.
World-renowned cultural institutions, such as museums and universities.
A lively cultural scene, including film festivals (for example the Toronto International Film Festival), premieres, a thriving music or theatre scene (for example, West End theatre and Broadway); an orchestra, an opera company, art galleries, and street performers.
Several powerful and influential media outlets with an international reach, such as the BBC, Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times, The Times, or Agence France-Presse.
A strong sporting community, including major sports facilities, home teams in major league sports, and the ability and historical experience to host international sporting events such as the Olympic Games, Football World Cup, or Grand Slam tennis events.
To some, London, New York City, Paris, and Tokyo have been traditionally considered the 'big four' world cities – not coincidentally, they also serve as symbols of global capitalism. However, many people have their own personal lists, and any two lists are likely to differ based on cultural background, values, and experience.

In certain countries, the rise of suburbia and the ongoing migration of manufacturing jobs to these countries has led to significant urban decay. Therefore, to boost urban regeneration, tourism, and revenue, the goal of building a "world-class" city has recently become an obsession with the governments of some mid-size cities and their constituents.

The phenomenon of world-city building has also been observed in Buenos Aires, Santiago, Frankfurt, Montréal, Sydney, Mexico City and Toronto: each of these cities has emerged as large and influential.


GaWC Inventory of World Cities (1999 Edition)
An attempt to define and categorise world cities was made in 1999 by the Globalization and World Cities Study Group and Network (GaWC), based primarily at Loughborough University in Loughborough, Leicestershire, England. The roster was outlined in the GaWC Research Bulletin 5 and ranked cities based on provision of "advanced producer services" such as accountancy, advertising, finance and law, by international corporations. The GaWC inventory identifies three levels of world cities and several sub-ranks.

Note that this roster generally denotes cities in which there are offices of certain multinational companies providing financial and consulting services rather than other cultural, political, and economic centres. There is a schematic map of GaWC cities at their website.


Alpha world cities (full service world cities)
12 points: London, New York, Paris, Tokyo
10 points: Chicago, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Los Angeles, Milan, Singapore
Refer to Official GaWC List.

Beta world cities (major world cities)
9 points: San Francisco, Sydney, Toronto, Zürich
8 points: Brussels, Madrid, Mexico City, São Paulo
7 points: Moscow, Seoul

Gamma world cities (minor world cities)
6 points: Amsterdam, Boston, Caracas, Dallas, Düsseldorf, Geneva, Houston, Jakarta, Johannesburg, Melbourne, Osaka, Prague, Santiago, Taipei, Washington
5 points: Bangkok, Beijing, Montreal, Rome, Stockholm, Warsaw
4 points: Atlanta, Barcelona, Berlin, Budapest, Buenos Aires, Copenhagen, Hamburg, Istanbul, Kuala Lumpur, Manila, Miami, Minneapolis, Munich, Shanghai

Evidence of world city formation

Strong evidence
3 points: Athens, Auckland, Dublin, Helsinki, Luxembourg, Lyon, Mumbai, New Delhi, Philadelphia, Rio de Janeiro, Tel Aviv, Vienna

Some evidence
2 points: Abu Dhabi, Almaty, Birmingham (UK), Bogotá, Bratislava, Brisbane, Bucharest, Cairo, Cleveland, Cologne, Detroit, Dubai, Ho Chi Minh City, Kiev, Lima, Lisbon, Manchester, Montevideo, Oslo, Riyadh, Rotterdam, Seattle, Strasbourg, Stuttgart, The Hague, Vancouver

Minimal evidence
1 point: Adelaide, Antwerp, Aarhus, Baltimore, Bangalore, Bologna, Brasília, Calgary, Cape Town, Colombo, Columbus, Dresden, Edinburgh, Genoa, Glasgow, Gothenburg, Guangzhou, Hanoi, Kansas City, Leeds, Lille, Marseille, Richmond, St. Petersburg, Tashkent, Tehran, Tijuana, Turin, Utrecht, Wellington

GaWC Leading World Cities (2004 Edition)
An attempt to redefine and recategorise leading world cities was made by PJ Taylor at GaWC in 2004.
This ranking list is referred to as the Official GaWC List.


Global Cities

Well rounded global cities
Very large contribution: London and New York City.
Smaller contribution and with cultural bias: Los Angeles, Paris and San Francisco.
Incipient global cities: Amsterdam, Boston, Chicago, Madrid, Milan, Moscow, Toronto.

Global niche cities - specialised global contributions
Economic: Hong Kong, Singapore, and Tokyo.
Political and social: Brussels, Geneva, Strasbourg and Washington.

World Cities

Subnet articulator cities
Cultural: Berlin, Copenhagen, Melbourne, Munich, Oslo, Rome, Stockholm.
Political: Bangkok, Beijing, Vienna.
Social: Manila, Nairobi, Ottawa.

Worldwide leading cities
Primarily economic global contributions: Frankfurt, Miami, Munich, Osaka, Singapore, Sydney, Zurich
Primarily non-economic global contributions: Abidjan, Addis Ababa, Atlanta, Basle, Barcelona, Cairo, Denver, Harare, Lyon, Manila, Mexico City, Mumbai, New Delhi, Shanghai.

Global Cities Conference 2006
This conference took place at Liverpool Hope University, starting on 29 June 2006 and chaired by Dr. Lawrence Phillips of the Global Cities Conference at the university. Its aim was to establish what is meant by a 'global city', by examining criteria such as images, narratives, economics, planning and people's experiences. It also looked at whether the perceived 'big four' — London, Paris, New York, and Tokyo — are in fact the only candidates for global city status, or if they should in fact be joined by fast-growing cities in Asia or the developing world.


Other criteria
The GaWC list is based on specific criteria and, thus, may not include other cities of global significance or elsewhere on the spectrum. For example, cities with the following:

Large populations, proper and agglomerated
Diverse demographic constituencies
Based on various indicators:
Population, habitat, mobility, and urbanisation
Significant financial capacity/output:
city/regional GDP
Stock market indices/market capitalisation
Headquarters for multinational corporations
Financial service provision; e.g., banks, accountancy
Employment
Based on quality of life or city development
Based on costs of living
Based on personal wealth; e.g., number of billionaires
Significant transport infrastructure:
Airports with significant passenger traffic or cargo movements
Extensive and popular mass transit systems
Prominent rail usage
Road vehicle usage
Major seaports
Significant technological capabilities/infrastructure:
Prominent skylines/skyscrapers
Significant institutions:
Educational institutions; e.g., universities, international student attendance
Research facilities
Health facilities; e.g. hospitals, medical laboratories
Sites of pilgrimage for world religions
Hosting headquarters for international organizations
Cities containing UNESCO World Heritage Sites of historical and cultural significance
High endowments of cultural facilities:
Notable museums and galleries
Notable opera
Notable orchestras
Notable film centres and film festivals
Notable theatre centres
Sites of major international sports events; e.g., Olympic Games sites
Tourism throughput:
Visitors
Economy
Events
Site or subject in Arts and Media
TV,Film,Video-Games,Music
Literature,Magazines,Articles,Documentary
Historic Reference,Showcase

GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHY

Global Demography: Fact, Force and Future
David E Bloom and David Canning[1]
In Conference 2006
Abstract
In the past 50 years, the world accelerated its transition out of long-term demographic stability. As infant and child mortality rates fell, populations began to soar. In most countries, this growth led to falling fertility rates. Although fertility has fallen, the population continues to increase because of population momentum; it will eventually level off. In the meantime, demographic change has created a ‘bulge’ generation, which today appears in many countries as a large working-age population. This cohort will eventually become a large elderly population, in both developed and developing countries. Population growth has been the subject of great debate among economists and demographers. Until recently, most have agreed on a middle ground, in which population growth per se has no effect on economic growth. New evidence suggests that changes in the age structure of populations – in particular, a rising ratio of working-age to non-working-age individuals – leads to the possibility of more rapid economic growth, via both accounting and behavioural effects. The experiences of east Asia, Ireland and sub-Saharan Africa all serve as evidence of the effect of demographic change on economic growth (or lack thereof). Both internal migration (from rural to urban areas) and international migration complicate this picture. The overall implications of population growth for policy lie in the imperative for investments in health and education, and for sound policies related to labour, trade and retirement. Understanding future trends is essential for the development of good policy. Demographic projections can be quite reliable, but huge uncertainties – in the realms of health, changes in human life span, scientific advances, migration, global warming and wars – make overall predictions extremely uncertain.

1. Introduction[2]
For much of human history, demographic patterns were reasonably stable; human populations grew slowly, and the age structures, birth rates, and death rates of populations changed only gradually. Epidemics and pandemics had huge effects on populations, but these effects were short-lived and had little bearing on long-term trends.

In the past 50 years, however, this trend of long-term stability has given way to the biggest demographic upheaval in history, an upheaval that is still running its course. In the developed world, a sharp post-war rise in fertility was followed by an equally sharp fall. These changes in fertility transformed age structures through the creation of a ‘baby boom’ generation. The ageing of this generation and continued declines in fertility and old-age mortality are shifting the population balance in developed countries from young to old. In the meantime, the developing world has experienced a population explosion, the result of improved nutrition, public health infrastructure and medical care.

Even if high fertility – the main underlying cause of rapid population growth – were to suddenly adjust to the long-run replacement level of 2.1 children per woman, humanity would continue to experience demographic change for some time. The rapid increase in the global population over the past few decades has resulted in large numbers of people of childbearing age. This creates ‘population momentum’, in which the populations of most countries, even those with falling birth rates, will grow for many years to come. This is particularly true of developing countries.

Population changes have potentially huge implications for the pace and progress of economic development. For example, an increasing proportion of elderly may act as a drag on economic growth where smaller working populations must provide for a larger number of non-working dependents. Rising life expectancy can also bolster an economy by creating a greater incentive to save and to invest in education, thereby boosting the financial capital on which investors draw and the human capital that strengthens economies. Where a country has experienced a baby boom followed by a decline in fertility, the relative size of the workforce is increased. Countries that are able to absorb the baby boom generation into productive employment can experience a rapid increase in economic growth. Countries unable to take advantage of this opportunity run the risk of creating large, chronically underemployed and increasingly restive working-age populations.

2. Global Demographic Trends and Patterns
The global population, which stood at just over 2 billion in 1950, is 6.5 billion today. The world is currently gaining new inhabitants at a rate of 76 million people a year (representing the difference, in 2005, between 134 million births and 58 million deaths). Although this growth is slowing, middle-ground projections suggest the world will have 9.1 billion inhabitants by 2050, when growth will be approximately 34 million a year.

These past and projected additions to world population have been, and will increasingly be, distributed unevenly across the world. Today, 95 per cent of population growth occurs in developing countries (see Figure 1). The population of the world's 50 least-developed countries is expected to more than double by the middle of this century, with several poor countries tripling their population over the period. By contrast, the population of the developed world is expected to remain steady at around 1.2 billion, with population declines in some wealthy countries.

Figure 1: World Population
The disparity in population growth between developed and developing countries reflects the existence of considerable heterogeneity in birth, death and migration processes, both over time and across national populations, races and ethnic groups. The disparity has coincided with changes in the age-group composition of populations. An overview of these factors illuminates the mechanisms of global population growth and change.

2.1 Crude birth and death rates
One of the simplest ways to consider population growth is through crude birth and death rates. These are the number of births and deaths per 1,000 people. On a worldwide basis, the difference between these rates is the rate of population growth. Within regions or countries, population growth is also affected by emigration and immigration. Figure 2 shows that in both developed and developing regions the crude birth rate has decreased by about half over the past 50 years. This implies a much greater absolute reduction in developing regions. The net result of these reductions is a current crude birth rate in developing regions that is similar to that of the developed regions 50 years ago.

Figure 2: Crude Birth Rate
As Figure 3 shows, crude death rates follow a different pattern. The reduction in mortality in developing countries since 1950 has been very rapid – so rapid that the crude death rate in developing countries is now lower than in developed countries. The gradual rise in the crude death rate in developed countries results from the combination of relatively steady infant and child mortality rates and rising death rates due to an ageing population. The figure indicates that a similar rise in the death rate will begin in developing countries in a couple of decades.

Figure 3: Crude Death Rate
Figure 4 demonstrates the combined effect of crude birth and death rates on population growth rates, as modified by migration (primarily from developing to developed regions).

Figure 4: Population Growth Rate
2.2 Total fertility rate
The total fertility rate, that is the number of children born per woman, fell from about 5 in 1950 to a little over 2.5 in 2005 (see Figure 5). This number is projected to fall to about 2 by 2050. This decrease is attributable largely to changes in fertility in the developing world. In 1950, the total fertility rate among developed countries was already below 3 children per woman; the rate among developing countries was over 6. Fertility in the latter is now below 3 children per woman. The fertility decline in low-income countries can be ascribed to a number of factors, including declines in infant mortality rates, greater levels of female education and increased labour market opportunities for women, and the provision of family planning services.

Figure 5: Total Fertility Rate
2.3 Infant and child mortality decline
The developing world has seen significant reductions in infant and child mortality over the past 50 years (see Figure 6). Infant mortality (death prior to age 1) in developing countries has dropped from 180 to about 57 deaths per 1,000 live births. It is projected to decline further to fewer than 30 deaths per 1,000 live births by 2050. The past half-century's gains resulted primarily from improved nutrition, public health interventions related to water and sanitation, and medical advances such as the use of vaccines and antibiotics. Infant mortality rates in the developed world have been, and will continue to be, significantly lower than those in the developing world. Developed countries have seen infant mortality decline from 59 to 7 deaths per 1,000 live births since 1950, and this is projected to decline further still, to 4 by 2050. Child mortality (death prior to age 5) has also fallen, in both developed and developing countries.

Figure 6: Infant Mortality Rate
Figure 7 addresses a widely discussed issue relevant to infant and child mortality: ‘missing women’. Perhaps because of the selective abortion of female foetuses or because of female infanticide, there is a severe exaggeration in a few countries of the usual pattern of boys aged 0–4 outnumbering young girls of the same ages.

Figure 7: Number of Countries in which Males per 100 Females is in a Given Range, Age 0–4
2.4 Life expectancy and longevity
For the world as a whole, life expectancy increased from 47 years in 1950–1955 to 65 years in 2000–2005. It is projected to rise to 75 years by the middle of this century, with considerable disparities between the wealthy developed countries, at 82 years, and the less-developed countries, at 74 years (see Figure 8). As a result of the global decline in fertility, and because people are living longer, median age is rising (see Figure 9). The proportion of the elderly in the total population is rising sharply. The number of people over the age of 60, currently around half the number of those aged 15–24, is expected to reach 1 billion (overtaking the 15–24 age group) by 2020. It is projected to reach almost 2 billion by 2050. The proportion of individuals aged 80 or over is projected to rise from 1 per cent to 4 per cent of the global population by 2050. (Figure 10 shows the history and projections for the actual number of individuals aged 80 or above.) Population ageing is occurring in both developed and developing countries, although more rapidly in the former. In the developed world, the proportion of people aged 60 or over will increase from 20 to 32 per cent by 2050. In the developing world, it will rise from 8 to 20 per cent. There are gender differences in life expectancy. Figure 11 shows that life expectancy for women tends to be around 4 to 6 years longer than for men, although there is considerable variation across countries.

Figure 8: Life Expectancy
Figure 9: Median Age
Figure 10: Number of People Aged 80 or Above
Figure 11: Number of Countries in which Female Longevity Exceeds that of Males by a Given Range of Years
The positive correlation between life expectancy and income, which was first discussed in detail by Preston (1975), is one of the most central relationships in the fields of international health and development. Preston observed the strong, positive relationship between national income levels and life expectancy in poorer countries, though the relationship is nonlinear as life expectancy levels in richer countries are less sensitive to variations in average income. Preston also noted that life expectancy is increasing over time at all income levels. Although the basic facts set out by Preston are generally accepted, the mechanisms that lie behind the relationships and the policy implications we can draw from them are still disputed. Bloom and Canning (forthcoming) discuss Preston's paper in detail.

2.5 Age distribution: working-age population
Baby booms have altered the demographic landscape in many countries. As the experiences of several regions during the past century show, an initial fall in mortality rates creates a boom generation because high survival rates lead to more people at young ages than in earlier generations. Fertility rates fall subsequently, as parents realise they do not need to produce as many children to reach their desired family size, or as desired family size diminishes for other reasons. When fertility falls and the baby boom stops, the age structure of the population then shows a ‘bulge’ – the baby-boom-age cohort – created by the nonsynchronous falls in mortality and fertility. As this cohort works its way through the age structure of the population, it represents a share of the population larger than the share represented by the cohorts that precede or follow it (see Figure 12).

Figure 12: Ratio of Working-age to Non-working-age Population
The baby boom creates particular challenges and opportunities for countries. In its youth, it is a large cohort to be educated. Jimenez and Murthi (2006), in addressing the challenges of a large youth cohort (ages 12–24), stress the importance for long-term economic growth of investing in education and health of the young and the need to ease entry into the labour market for this group. Once of age to enter the labour force, the baby boom generation represents an unusually large working-age (approximately ages 15–64) population, which offers the prospect of a ‘demographic dividend’. Lee and Mason (2006) describe two aspects of the demographic dividend: falling fertility, leading to more workers per capita and therefore potentially more resources to devote to development and to family welfare, and extra savings generated when people expect a longer retirement period. (See also Bloom, Canning and Sevilla 2002.)

2.6 Migration
Migration also alters population patterns. Globally, 191 million people live in countries other than the one in which they were born. On average, during the next 45 years, the United Nations estimates that over 2.2 million individuals will migrate annually from developing to developed countries (see Figure 13). (The UN estimates regarding future migration are not very informative, a reflection of the inherent difficulty of constructing accurate projections of migration flows.) According to the UN Population Division, the United States will receive by far the highest number of immigrants (1.1 million a year), and China, Mexico, India, the Philippines and Indonesia will be the main sources of emigrants.

Figure 13: Number of Migrants from Less-developed to More-developed Countries
Several factors affect migration from developing to developed countries. A significant number of working-age people in developing countries are underemployed relative to the opportunities they perceive in developed countries. At the same time, developed countries face a declining share of working-age people and a growing number of elderly who need care, creating more opportunities for immigrants. Because migrants are disproportionately of working age, migration can affect the age distribution in both sending and receiving countries. The ratio of workers to dependents will tend to rise more slowly in sending countries and decline more slowly in receiving countries than it otherwise would. Williamson (2006) provides an economic explanation of the emigration life-cycle. First, people are too poor to emigrate; this is the ‘migration poverty trap’. As wealth increases and demographic booms begin, more people are able to emigrate and more are driven to emigrate. Emigration later subsides in response to remittances, industrialisation, conditions improving at home, and there being relatively fewer workers. In the case of Europe, as transport and industrialisation spread within the continent, the poorer countries joined the richer ones in sending migrants to the Americas.

2.7 Urbanisation
In both developed and developing countries, there has been a huge movement from rural to urban areas since 1950 (see Figure 14). Less-developed regions, in aggregate, have seen their population shift from 18 per cent urban in 1950 to 44 per cent in 2006, while the corresponding figures for developed countries are 52 per cent to 75 per cent. This move toward urban areas – and the concomitant urbanisation of areas that were formerly peri-urban or rural – is consistent with the shift that nearly all countries have experienced in moving from agricultural economies to industrial and service-based economies.

Figure 14: Percentage of Population Living in Urban Areas
The existence and growth of megacities (that is, those with 10 million or more residents) is a late-20th century phenomenon that has created new problems. There were 20 such cities in 2003, 15 in developing countries. Tokyo is by far the largest, with 35 million people, followed by (in descending order) Mexico City, New York, São Paulo and Mumbai (all with 17 to 19 million residents). All cities allow for economies of scale and provide a broad mix of people and activities, making them centres of economic growth and activity. These characteristics account, in some measure, for their attractiveness. However, as continued movement to urban areas leads to megacities, these factors seem to be countered in part by problems that arise in the areas of transportation, housing, air pollution and waste management. The conditions in megacities may also exacerbate socioeconomic disparities.

3. The Effect on Economies – Historical Background
Demographic change is consequential with respect to economic and social development. The economic consequences of population growth, in particular, have long been the subject of debate.

It was first believed that population growth would lead to the exhaustion of resources. In 1798, Thomas Malthus, perhaps the first of the ‘population pessimists’, argued that the world's resources would be unable to keep pace with population growth. Food production would expand more slowly than population, and many would lose out in the competition for food. Such thinking held sway well into the 20th century. In 1968, Paul Ehrlich predicted: ‘The battle … is over. In the 1970s … hundreds of millions of people are going to starve to death’ (Ehrlich 1968, p xi). In the early 1970s, studies by the US National Academy of Sciences and the United Nations also predicted negative effects of population growth.

Not until the late 20th century did other arguments become popular. In the last 30 years of the 20th century, per capita incomes rose by two-thirds as global population doubled. This prompted some to ask whether, far from being a hindrance to growth, population expansion might in fact assist it. In the 1960s, it was proposed that population growth aided economic development by spurring technological and institutional innovation and increasing the supply of human ingenuity. Simon Kuznets (1967), Julian Simon (1981) and Ester Boserup (1981) were the leaders among the ‘population optimists’. Kuznets argued that larger societies can take advantage of economies of scale and are better-equipped for trade. Simon showed that the prices of natural resources decline as growing populations, complete with a greater stock of human ingenuity, make the technological improvements necessary to respond to increasing demand. Boserup presented compelling historical evidence of the pressure that population growth puts on societies to create new solutions in the face of resource constraints. The Green Revolution, for example, where new, high-yield crops dramatically increased food production in much of the developing world, occurred in part as a response to population growth. Although the optimists did not believe population growth would automatically lead to economic advances, they saw that favourable policies could help translate increases in population into greater wealth.

Population neutralism became the predominant school of thought in the 1980s and 1990s. Advocates of this position (Bloom and Freeman 1986; Kelley 1988) took the optimists' observation that the consequences of population growth depended largely on the policy environment a step further. Population neutralism was based on empirical research showing little correlation between the growth rate of income per capita and the rate of population growth. In other words, population growth by itself has no effect on economic performance. Other factors such as openness to trade, educational attainment and the quality of institutions determine whether economic progress can keep pace with population expansion. Although fast-growing populations tend to experience slower economic growth, when these other factors are taken into account, the negative impact of population expansion disappears.

Recently, population neutralism is giving way to a more fine-grained view of the effects of population dynamics in which demographic change does affect economic development. Economists and demographers now point to both the accounting effects and the behavioural effects of changes in population size and structure.

4. The Effect on Economies – Some New Thinking
4.1 Accounting effects
Some of the effects of population change on economic growth result from ‘accounting’ effects. Accounting effects assume constant behaviour – in marriage, labour participation or other decisions – within age and other demographic groups, but allow for changes in the relative size of those groups to influence overall outcomes. For example, holding age- and sex-specific labour force participation rates constant, we can see how a change in the age structure affects total labour supply.

As a country's baby boom generation ages, for a time it constitutes a large cohort of working-age individuals and, later, a large cohort of elderly people. The span of years represented by the boom generation (which determines how quickly this cohort moves through the age structure) and the size of the population bulge vary greatly from one country to another. But in all circumstances, there are reasons to think that a very unstable age structure has economic consequences. A historically high proportion of working-age individuals in a population means that, potentially, production can increase relative to consumption, and with more workers per capita, GDP per capita can receive a boost.

Life-cycle patterns in savings also come into play as a population's age structure changes. People save more during their working-age years. If the working-age cohort is especially large compared to other age groups, savings per capita will increase.

4.2 Behavioural effects
Declining rates of adult mortality and the movement of large cohorts through the global population pyramid will lead to a massive expansion in the proportion of elderly in the world population. Some simple economic projections show catastrophic effects of this ageing. These projections tend to be based on an ‘accounting’ approach, which assumes that age-specific behaviour remains unchanged and ignores the potentially significant effects of behavioural change.

The ageing of the baby boom generation potentially promotes labour shortages, creating upward pressure on wages and downward pressure on the real incomes of retirees. It is likely that workers will adjust their behaviour in response to these pressures, resulting in increased labour force participation, longer working lives and possibly the immigration of workers from developing countries. In addition, Bloom, Canning and Moore (2004) find that health and longevity improvements tend, in theory, to increase individuals' desired age of retirement. In practice, however, mandatory retirement and other disincentives to work at older ages lead people to anticipate longer periods of retirement rather than longer working lives (Bloom, Canning, Moore et al 2006; Bloom et al, forthcoming). In response, national saving rates tend to rise (Bloom, Canning and Graham 2003).

Child mortality declines can also have behavioural effects, particularly for women, who are likely to be the primary caregivers for children. When fertility has fallen in response to a decrease in child mortality, more women are able to participate in the workforce, further boosting the labour supply.

5. Empirical Evidence
Demographic change is absent from many macroeconomic analyses that aim to explain cross-country differences in economic growth and poverty reduction. Yet several empirical studies show the importance of demographics in understanding economic development.

5.1 East Asia's baby boom
East Asia's remarkable economic growth in the past half-century coincided closely with demographic change in the region. As infant mortality fell from 181 to 34 per 1,000 births between 1950 and 2000, fertility fell from around 6 to 2 children per woman. The lag between falls in mortality and fertility created a baby boom generation. Between 1965 and 1990, the region's working-age population grew nearly four times faster than the dependent population. Several studies have estimated that this demographic shift was responsible for one-third of east Asia's economic growth during the period (that is, the ‘demographic dividend’). (See Bloom and Williamson 1998; Bloom, Canning and Malaney 2000.)

5.2 Labour supply and the Celtic tiger
From 1960 to 1990, the growth rate of income per capita in Ireland was approximately 3.5 per cent per annum. In the 1990s, it jumped to 5.8 per cent, well in excess of any other European economy. Demographic change contributed to the country's economic surge. In the decade following the legalisation of contraceptives in 1979, Ireland saw a sharp fall in the crude birth rate. This led to decreasing youth dependency and a rise in the working-age share of the total population. By the mid 1990s, the dependency burden in Ireland had dropped to a level below that in the United Kingdom.

Two additional demography-based factors in Ireland helped fuel economic growth by increasing labour supply per capita. First, although male labour force participation rates remained fairly static, the period from 1980 to 2000 saw a substantial increase in female labour force participation rates, particularly in the 25–40 year-old age group. Although one would expect rapid economic growth to encourage female labour participation, it seems likely that some of the increase can be attributed to the availability of contraception and women's increased freedom to choose between working and rearing children. Second, Ireland historically had high levels of outward migration of young adults (around 1 per cent of the population per year), because its economy was unable to absorb the large inflows of young workers created by its high fertility rate. The loss of these young workers exacerbated the problem of a high youth-dependency rate. The decline in youth-cohort sizes and rapid economic growth of the 1990s led to a reversal of this flow, resulting in net in-migration of workers, made up partly of return migrants and also, for the first time, substantial numbers of foreign immigrants (see Bloom and Canning 2003).

5.3 Continued high fertility in sub-Saharan Africa
Demographic change of a very different type can account for slow economic development. Much of sub-Saharan Africa remains stalled at the first stage of a demographic transition.[3] Fertility rates actually increased a bit during the 1950s and through the 1970s and only recently have begun a slow fall. As swollen youth cohorts have entered the labour force, an inadequate economic policy environment in most countries has prevented many young people from engaging in productive employment. Large dependent populations (in this case, of children) have kept the proportion of working-age people in the total population low, making it more difficult for these economies to rise out of poverty (see Bloom and Sachs 1998).

6. Policy Implications
Rapid and significant demographic change places new demands on national and international policy-making. Transitions from high mortality and fertility to low mortality and fertility can be beneficial to economies as large baby-boom cohorts enter the workforce and save for retirement. Rising longevity also affects the incentives to save for old age, which can affect investment, international capital flows and interest rates.

The ability of countries to realise the potential benefits of the demographic transition and to mitigate the negative effects of ageing depends crucially on the policy and institutional environment. Attention to the following areas is likely to be key in developing effective policy to deal with the effects of demographic change.

6.1 Health
Recent evidence indicates that good health may be an important factor in economic development (see Bloom, Canning and Sevilla 2004). Health improvements – especially among infants and children – often lead to declines in fertility. Focusing on the diseases of childhood can therefore increase the likelihood of creating a boom generation and the positive economic effects a boom can generate (see Bloom, Canning and Weston 2005). Countries wishing to accelerate fertility declines may benefit from improving access to family planning services and education about fertility decisions.

6.2 Education
Workers are better able to contribute to economic growth if they have received an effective education. East Asia capitalised on its baby boom generation by providing high-quality education, including both general schooling and technical skills, which equipped them as workers to meet the demands of an ever-changing labour market. Ireland also gained from its baby boom by introducing free secondary schooling and expanding tertiary education.

6.3 Labour market institutions
Restrictive labour laws can limit a country's ability to benefit from demographic change, particularly where these laws make it difficult to hire and fire workers or to work part-time.[4] Restrictions on immigration are also of concern, as they hold down the labour supply. Immigration is a political hot potato in many countries, but economic incentives to lower barriers to immigration are likely to grow stronger as populations in developed countries age. International outsourcing, another controversial subject, may also be an increasingly important means of meeting the demand for labour.

6.4 Trade
One means by which east-Asian countries provided productive opportunities to their baby boom cohorts was by carefully opening up to international trade. The opportunity to export provides an outlet for the product of a large cohort. Bloom and Canning (2004) found that open economies benefit much more from demographic change than the average, and that closed economies do not derive any statistically significant benefit from changes in the age structure.

6.5 Retirement
Population ageing requires increased savings to finance longer retirements (especially if governments maintain current policies that discourage the conversion of greater longevity into longer working lives). This will affect financial markets, rates of return and investment. As more people move into old age, health care costs are likely to spiral upward, with the expansion of health care systems and growth in long-term care for the elderly. (However, Bryant and Sonerson (2006) caution that an ageing population is not the main driver of rising expenditures on health, showing that non-demographic factors are more substantial drivers of rising health expenditures than demographic ones.) As non-tradable, labour-intensive sectors with a low rate of technical progress, health care and elder care may affect the structure of the economy and potentially slow measured growth. Existing social security systems may hamper the ability of individuals to contribute to the financing of their retirement, as many of these systems penalise individuals who work beyond a fixed retirement age. As Turner (2006) explains, demographic factors play a central role in determining the potential viability of all pension systems, both fully funded and pay-as-you-go plans. Recent work in Australia by Kulish, Smith and Kent (2006) suggests that changes in fertility and longevity, functioning jointly, tend to increase the ratio of capital to labour inputs, and that, on average, people would still choose to spend a similar portion of their lives in retirement as before these changes.

7. Thinking Far Ahead: Whither the Human Life Span?
A discussion that pertains centrally to increases in life expectancy and that touches on retirement naturally leads to the question of the human life span. How long are people likely to live in the coming decades, and are the anticipated changes likely to bring new issues to the fore?

In most of the world, life expectancy has risen sharply during the past two centuries. Children born today can expect to live for many decades longer than their ancestors born in the 19th or early 20th centuries. In Japan, life expectancy at birth is now 82 years, and other regions have also made great progress as medical and public health advances, improved nutrition and behavioural changes encouraged by improved education have combined to reduce the risk of death at all ages.

Fries (1983) suggests that the human life span is more or less fixed at a certain age and unlikely to change over time. According to this view, an accumulation of inherited diseases express themselves in the post-reproductive years, during which individuals' survival confers no evolutionary benefit on their descendants, effectively maintaining a ceiling on life expectancy. Ronald Lee (2003), however, proposes an evolutionary mechanism through which the human life span may increase. He argues, essentially, that the children of individuals who are genetically disposed to long life benefit from their parents' and grandparents' longevity, mainly through intergenerational transfers (for example, time spent nurturing children). This mechanism has acted against the accumulation of inherited diseases at the older ages and has tended to shape the human genome in a manner that is likely to be more responsive to the life-prolonging efforts of modern science.

Whether or not the human life span changes over time may have important implications for societies and economies. If it remains steady at around 85 years, the fraction of people living beyond that age is unlikely to grow significantly or rapidly. If it increases, on the other hand, societies may face a number of new challenges. In one plausible scenario, health care costs will rise with increasing numbers of very old individuals; pension and social security payments will come under increasing pressure; the dependency ratio will shift, leaving relatively smaller working-age populations with an increased number of elderly dependents to support; and societies will have to adapt to the social and cultural impacts of the new demographic realities. But even if life spans increase significantly, it is possible that most of these predictions will not come to pass. Fries discusses a phenomenon known as ‘the compression of morbidity’ – meaning that the illnesses associated with old age may come to arise sufficiently later in life so that, even with increased life spans, the elderly may have fewer years during which they are dependent on working-age people. If this is correct, the predictions above will be incorrect, particularly if people choose to retire later or save more early in life.

Continuing increases in life expectancy in low-mortality populations have led some demographers to forecast further gains. They believe that scientific advances will continue to combine with behavioural changes to yield further life expectancy gains in the future. Manton, Stallard and Tolley (1991), for example, estimate that populations with extremely healthy lifestyles – that is, with an absence or near-absence of risk factors such as smoking, alcohol and obesity, and the presence of health-promoting behaviours such as a healthy diet and exercise – could achieve a life expectancy of between 95 and 100 years. Oeppen and Vaupel (2002) found that death rates among the very old in Sweden and throughout the industrial world fell substantially in the last century, and at an accelerating pace, reflecting bona fide life-span improvements. They forecast that life expectancy at birth in low-mortality countries will rise to 100 years by 2060. Along the same lines, Preston (1996) observes that 60 per cent of the life expectancy increase in the United States since 1950 was due to mortality declines in people over the age of 50. Li and Lee (2005) estimate that life expectancy in the United States will rise from a 1996 figure of 76.3 to 84.9 by 2050, with that in Japan rising from 80.5 to 88.1.

Others have reached different conclusions. Olshansky and Carnes (1994) question the models used by demographers which underpin predictions that life expectancy will increase dramatically; Olshansky, Carnes and Désesquelles (2001) predict that life expectancy at birth will not surpass 85 years. Death rates, they argue, would not fall sufficiently for life expectancy to rise rapidly, and earlier increases were driven largely by dramatic reductions in infant and child mortality, which could not recur. Perhaps more importantly, they see no reason why the future should necessarily mirror the past – new threats to health such as influenza pandemics, antibiotic resistance and obesity (discussed subsequently in Preston 2005) could reverse gains made in recent decades; technological improvements could stall and the drugs needed to counter the diseases of ageing might not be found; and environmental disasters, economic collapse or war could derail health systems at the same time as weakening individuals' ability to protect their own health.

The debate continues, and many questions remain unanswered. What will be the effect on the human life span of advances in genetics? Will anti-ageing technologies emerge to make the human body more robust for longer? Will wealthy societies succumb to damaging obesity epidemics or to new infectious diseases such as avian flu? Will economic meltdown take away the wealth that has contributed so much to improvements in health? Or will wars result in massive premature mortality, and thereby render the average life span a far less compelling issue?

8. Looking to the Future
What can we expect in the next half-century? Based on the indicators that are available, we can make a few points.

All signs suggest that there will be continued but slowing population growth. This continued growth will result in the addition of roughly 3 billion people to the world population, before it stabilises around 2050 at about 9 billion. Managing this increase will be an enormous challenge, and the economic consequences of failing to do so could be severe.
The world's population is ageing, and the growth in the sheer number of elderly people will be huge. The United Nations predicts that 31 per cent of China's population in 2050 – 432 million people – will be aged 60 or over. The corresponding figures for India are 21 per cent and 330 million (see Figure 15). No longer can ageing be thought of as a developed-world phenomenon. (Further comparison of China and India's demographic development as it has affected their economic development can be found in Bloom, Canning, Hu et al 2006.)

Figure 15: Growth of Elderly Population in China and India
International migration will continue, but the extent is unclear. The pressures that encourage people to migrate – above all the lure of greater economic well-being in the developed countries – will undoubtedly persist, but the strength of countervailing policy restrictions that could substantially staunch the flow of migrants is impossible to predict.
Urbanisation will continue, but here, too, the pace is impossible to predict. Greater economic opportunities in the cities will surely continue to attract migrants from rural areas, but environmental and social problems may stymie growth.
Although demographic changes are, for the most part, easier to predict than economic changes, the big-picture outlook is nonetheless unclear. The uncertainties are similar to those we cited regarding possible changes in the human life span. Will an outbreak of avian flu or another disease become pandemic, killing many millions and decimating economies? What happens if these diseases are, or become, resistant to existing drugs? Conversely, scientific advances in areas such as genomics, contraceptive methods, or vaccines for diseases such as AIDS or malaria could save and improve millions of lives. Global warming and other environmental changes, or large-scale war, could completely alter the context of demographic and economic predictions. Millions of refugees, from any cause, could lead demographic predictions to be far off the mark, and could, of course, lead to upheavals that would dwarf the importance of the analysis offered here.

Appendix A: Notes on Source, Country Groups, Coverage Period, Definitions and Assumptions
Source
All data and charts are taken directly from, or calculated on the basis of UN Population Division (2005). See <http://www.un.org/esa/population/publications/WPP2004/2004EnglishES.pdf> for the Executive Summary of UN Population Division (2005) (including the assumptions).

Definition of country groups
The UN defines ‘more-developed regions’ as ‘all regions of Europe plus Northern America, Australia/New Zealand and Japan’. ‘Less-developed regions’ means ‘all regions of Africa, Asia (excluding Japan), Latin America and the Caribbean plus Melanesia, Micronesia and Polynesia’.

The list of ‘more-developed’ countries consists of the following: Albania, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Channel Islands, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, TFYR Macedonia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom and the United States. All other countries are classified by the UN as ‘less-developed’.

Coverage period
The source presents data for 1950–2050. The United Nations presents some data for exact years (1950, 1955, etc) and other data for five-year periods (1950–55, 1955–60, etc). For the former, projections are made for 2010–2050; for the latter, for 2005–2010 to 2045–2050. For urban population shares, projections extend only to 2030. In each case, 1 July is the reference date. Data presented for exact years are: population, population by any specific age group, population by sex and the urban population share. Variables presented for five-year periods are: crude birth rate, crude death rate, total fertility rate, infant mortality rate, life expectancy, population growth rate, migration rate and number of migrants.

Definitions
The source document uses the following definitions:

Total fertility: children per woman

Crude birth rate: births per thousand population

Crude death rate: deaths per thousand population

Infant mortality rate: infant deaths per thousand live births, for both sexes combined

Life expectancy: expectation of life at birth for both sexes combined (years)

Population growth rate: average annual rate of population change (per cent)

Migrant numbers: net number of migrants, both sexes combined (thousands) – defined such that a positive number of migrants means that immigrants outnumber emigrants

Migration rate: crude net migration rate (net migrants per thousand population) – defined such that a positive rate means that immigrants outnumber emigrants

Percentage urban population: there is no simple definition for ‘urban’ in UN data. Demographic, administrative, and economic criteria used to report figures on urbanisation differ across countries.

In addition, we have defined two age groups, as follows:

Working age: 15–64

Non-working age: 0–14 and 65+

Assumptions
Fertility
The UN uses several differing assumptions about future fertility in making its projections. For the data and figures in this paper, we have used the UN's ‘medium-fertility variant’ in all instances in which more than one variant is available: total fertility rate, crude birth rate, crude death rate, population (for all age groups), population growth rate, migration rate and number of migrants.

For the medium-fertility variant, the UN assumes for all countries that fertility will gradually converge to 1.85 children per woman. It does not assume that countries will necessarily reach that level by 2050. For high- and medium-fertility countries (that is, those with total fertility at or below 2.1 children per woman in 2000–2005), projections are built on the experience of all countries that experienced fertility declines during the past half-century. If a country's fertility rate is projected to fall to 1.85 before 2050, the UN model assumes it will then remain at that level. Projections are not done mechanistically; they are always checked against recent trends in a specific country. In some instances, these recent trends require an adjustment in projections for the coming five or ten years, after which time projections revert to the basic fertility projection model. For low-fertility countries whose fertility rate is currently below 1.85, the model used by the UN assumes that fertility in the coming five to ten years will follow recent trends and will then increase at a rate of 0.07 children every five years.

Mortality
The UN also makes assumptions about future mortality rates, which affect most of the data in the figures in this paper. UN projections take into account recent sex-specific trends and are based on the expectation that life expectancy will rise more slowly in countries that have already reached a fairly high level. For those indicators for which the UN provides data specific to various possible courses of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, we have used only the ‘normal mortality assumption’ (which uses a model that takes HIV/AIDS into consideration and, for countries with high levels of the disease, projects a ‘slowdown in the reduction of general mortality risks not related to HIV/AIDS’).

Migration
For migration numbers and rates, the UN assumes for most countries that migration patterns will change very slowly after the period 2010–2015, compared with the speed at which such patterns changed in the past. Projections are based on past trends and take into account countries' current policies regarding international migration.

hi welcome back to the contemporary

world series i hope you are as

excited as i am to learn something new

[Music]

today

[Music]

so this week we will be learning about

global demography

do you know how many we are now in the

world do you know the current population

of the philippines

do you know what are the top three

biggest countries when it comes to

population

and most importantly what are the

implications of

overpopulation

demography represents the study of

statistics such as

births deaths or incidents of disease

which illustrate the changing structure

of human populations

and these pose an effect on

globalization as a whole

so in general demography pertains to the

composition of a particular human

population

we will also be learning some key fact

some key terms that are associated with

the study of

demography and these includes birth rate

life expectancy at birth mortality rate

median age age dependency ratio and so

on

so one way that a particular individual

is added to the population

is through births of new individuals

the way we measure this particular type

of addition

is with the natality rate or the birth

rate

which is the number of births per 1000

individual

per unit of time and usually that is

of within a year

on the flip side one way that

individuals leave a population

and reduce its size is through deaths

of individuals and the way we measure

this

is through the mortality rate which is

the number of deaths per 1000

individual per unit of time again that

period of time is usually a year

migration also affects population

patterns

the second way that individuals are

added to the population

is through immigration this is the

permanent arrival of new individuals

into the population these individuals

are of course the same species

as the rest of the population and they

increase the size of the population

as they join the group second

individuals may live

through emigration this is the permanent

movement of individuals out of a

population

they may be juveniles who are heading

out on their own

or they may be adults who leave the

group

for some reasons like overcrowding or

for

searching for other sources of food and

shelter expectation of life

at a given age is the average number of

years which a person

of that age may expect to live based on

the mortality pattern prevalent

in that country as a result of global

decline

in fertility and because people are

living longer

global life expectancy is rising this is

what we mean when we say

60 is a new 40 or 70 is a new

50. generally people are getting younger

and that is the result of our investment

in health in medicine

in innovations in science and technology

and

so on so you can see in this graph

that japan has the leading

length of years of life expectancy

the global life expectancy or the

average expected living age of

individuals has steadily increased

for the world as a whole life expectancy

increased

from 47 years in 1950 to 1955

to 65 years in 2000 to 2005.

in 2016 the world health organization

reported that

72 years was the average life expectancy

of

at birth of the global population this

graph shows

that right now it's at 73.2 years for

both

success combined and it's also

surprising to note that women

actually live longer than the male

counterpart so it's 75.6

years for women compared to that of only

70.8 for that of

the men

fertility rate refers to the number of

children born by a woman at a period of

time

during her child bearing age and that is

usually

at 15 to 45 years there are

several factors such as lifestyle

factors

increase in sexually transmitted

diseases rise in obesity

and environmental factors involved in

urbanization

and urban lifestyle that are affecting

fertility and have led to rise

in male and female subfertility

in addition there are social economic

factors that have led to couples or

women

delaying having children lack of

affordable housing

flexible and part-time career pose for

women

expensive child care have all

contributed to the current

low fertility or birth rate couples or

women

are delaying starting a family which has

led to a true decline in their fertility

levels

due to ovarian aging and related reasons

leading to reduced chance of consumption

median age on the other hand is the age

that divides a population

into two numerically equally sized

groups

that is half of the people are younger

than this age and half are older it is a

single index that summarizes the age

distribution of a particular

population the global median age has

increased from 21.5 years

in 1970 to over 30 years in 2019

age dependency ratio is the ratio of

dependents that is

people younger than 15 years old or

older than 64

to the working age population at 15 to

64

years old the proportion of the

population aged 0 to 14

over the population aged 15 to 64

the so-called working age population is

used to indicate the burden of caring

for this group and is called

the child dependency ratio whereas the

proportion

of the population over 65 divided by the

working age population

is called the old age dependency

ratio now let's talk about a couple

of theories on population growth and

decline

first we have the malfution theory and

the demographic transition theory

malfunctionism is the idea that

population growth is potentially

exponential while the growth of food and

other resources

is linear it derives from the political

and economic thought of reverend thomas

robert malthus

in his 1798 political writing

an essay on principle on the principle

of population

malthus argued that population was

growing faster than the amount of

resources we could produce

he suggested that at some point

population would outgrow resources and

that would be catastrophic

there would be conflict in war and

famine and diseases

which would then level the population

growth and

it would then return to balance

next is the demographic transition model

this model predicts

that as a country develops high birth

rates and high death rates will fall

this model also predicts that countries

will pass through periods of

industrialization

and urbanization on the way to reduce

birth

and death rates so there are five stages

stage one is characterized by high birth

rates and fluctuating

high death rates resulting in small

population growth

plagues diseases and poor nutrition keep

death rates

high stage 2 is characterized by

improved healthcare sanitation and food

supplies

leading to a rapid fall in death rates

birth rates are still high so there is a

rapid increase in population

numbers stage 3

is characterized by decreased growth

rate of a population

birth rates begin to fall

industrialization

urbanization and improved living

standards

lead to less desire to have large

families

stage four is characterized by the

completion

of a transition to low growth rate with

low birth

and death rates the birth rate may

fluctuate

in special circumstances like that of

the post-war baby boom

while in stage five it is characterized

by a lower birth rate than death rate

this is happening in some european

countries and in japan

but it is not known if this trend will

also extend to some

other regions so the demographic

transition theory predicts that

population grow along a predictable

five stage model in stage one again the

pre-industrial society

death rates and birth rates are high and

roughly in balance

and population growth is typically very

slow

and constrained by available food supply

in stage 2 that is

of the developing country the death

rates rapidly declined due to

improvements in food supply and

sanitation

which increases lifespans and reduce

diseases

in stage 3 birth rates fall due to

access

in contraceptions increases in wages

urbanization and increase in the status

and education of women

and increase in investment in education

population growth

begins to level off in stage four

birth rates and death rates are both low

the large group born during stage 2

ages and creates an economic burden on

the working age population

in stage 5 though only some theories

acknowledge this stage other recognized

only four stages

fertility rates transition to either

below replacement

or above replacement so that's a

demographic transition

theory and now let us try to answer our

last question

what are the the implications of

overpopulation

well there's a good side and then

there's the bad side

the good news is there'd be better

economy

that is why people in rural areas

hope to have more children in the first

place more kids would mean there would

be more

hands to help in the farm or that there

will be more professionals to help the

parents later on in their life when they

get old

second there will be more efficient

utilization

of resources especially in

urban areas the denser the population

the more concentrated it is in one

particular area

and the more efficient the public

transportation

is the lesser the carbon footprint

there'd also be more medical

agricultural

and industrial growth this is owing to

the fact that there would be more brains

added to our think tank

which would then contribute to more

innovations in

science and technology in medicine

and in all other areas there'd also be

better

labor force especially if we have a good

working age population

and of course there'd be greater

investment in capital

formation on the bad side the perils of

overpopulation include shortage of food

and land many scientists believe that we

have already exceeded the

maximum carrying capacity of the earth

the food and agricultural organization

warns that in order to mitigate the

impact of population growth

food production must increase by 70

percent

annual cereal production must rise to 3

billion

to add to the current 2.1 billion

and yearly meat production has to go up

by 200 million

to reach 420 million

there's also environmental problems take

note that we are 7.8

billion here now on earth and the earth

has not gotten

any bigger we all need the earth's

resources

to have energy to

warm our bodies to warm our homes

to run our cars and so on

there'd be problem of unemployment of

course

and of course there's a problem on

poverty and low standard of living

there are millions of people around the

world who are dying of hunger

of diseases of malnutrition

there'd also be inflation and of course

like the malfution's way of thinking

sooner or later when resources ran

out there'd be conflict and war

the population clock sets the world

population at

7.8 billion with china

leading having 1.4 billion

and is considered as the biggest country

in the world when it comes to population

india has 1.3 billion while

u.s has 331 million

people and they come as second

and third place respectively

philippines has 109 million and we are

on the 13th rank for current

and real time count on population birth

rates and death rates

check world domiter that info

so demography again gives you the tools

and analytical perspective to understand

the world around you

it gives you the equipment to solve

problems not only of your community

but of the world in general and it also

gives us the means to intervene more

wisely and effectively

in the real world to improve not only

your own well-being but

also that of others with that said the

study of demography

is an essential area of focus when we

look at globalization

as a whole

so in conclusion we have a growing

population

and experts believe that we will reach

the 9 billion milestone

in the year 2050. second the malthusians

way of thinking

is a pessimistic way of thinking but

is also a rather realistic way of

thinking

if left unchecked we are bound to

endanger our own species

through overpopulation being educated

individuals and given all those data i

just presented to you

i hope that will help you make more

well-informed decisions in the future

let's look at the bigger picture and

realize that

what we do no matter how small as having

a large family

ironic as that may sound actually

affects the world in general

after all we are all interconnected in

this small world we live in

so i hope that has been helpful to you

for more lectures in the contemporary

world series please don't forget to

Demography is the statistical study of human populations. Demography examines the size, structure, and movements of populations over space and time. It uses methods from history, economics, anthropology, sociology, and other fields. Demography is useful for governments and private businesses as a means of analyzing and predicting social, cultural, and economic trends related to population.

While basic demographic studies, such as censuses, were conducted in the ancient world as far back as 6,000 years ago, demographers as we know them, such as John Graunt from the United Kingdom, came about in the 16th century. The earliest statistical studies were concerned mostly with mortality (how many people died and at what age). Through studying baptism and burial records, Graunt could estimate the number of men of military age, and the number of women of childbearing age. His study represents one of the earliest statistical examinations of the population of a region. Demographic studies were often carried out by early insurance agents to determine life insurance rates.

These early demographic studies were mostly concerned with mortality. However, in the 19th century, studies showed that there was a decline in the number of births, and researchers began to study fertility as well as mortality. These studies led to the idea of “differential fertility.” Differential fertility suggests that different groups within a population have different numbers of children due to factors, such as religion, cultural attitudes, poverty, and employment. Migration of people is the last main factor in demographic studies. It is these three variables (mortality, fertility, and migration) that contribute to population change.

Demographers gather data mainly through government censuses and government registries of births and deaths. However, these sources can be inaccurate depending on the precision of government records. Demographers also gather data indirectly through surveying smaller groups within a population. These samples are then examined using statistical models to draw conclusions about the whole population.

THE GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHYChange in terms of the demographic profilesof population around the world DEMOGRAPHY-Study   of   stats   such   as   births,   deaths,income, incidence of disease which illustratethe changing structure of human population-Its all about study of populationHOW DOES DEMOGRAPHY AFFECTS OURLIVES?(IMPORTANCE OF DEMOGRAPHY)1.   It   is   important   to   help   us   know   far   thegrowth   rate   of   the   economy   in   terms   ofpopulation2. We  need  to know the  rate  of  populationgrowth   rate   because   sometimes   populationmay   experience   problems   because   ofpopulation   explosion   (they   may   haveshortage in terms of water electricity etc)3.   In   terms   of   economic   planning   on   themacro   level,   demography   is   importantparticularly on the data relating to the trendsin population growth because this may helpthe   planners   to   formulate   plans   for   thecountry. RELATIONSHIP OF GLOBALIZATION ANDPOPULATION- Globalization affected population in severalways like in technological advancement thatdrastically change global population in termsof fertility rates and the life expectancy-   Migration   also   spread   diseases   (HIV   ANDCOVID 19)   TRANSITION   OF   WORLD'SDEMOGRAPHY- La croix, Mason, & Abe (2003), wrote thatsince WW2:*Globalization   has   affected   populationdynamics in several ways (demography hasalways   been   affected   by   technologyparticularly in the explosion of contraceptivetechnology, improvement of public health)*   The   size   growth   and   age   structure   ofnational populations also affect globalization(population   change   might   influence   themovement   of   people   products   andinvestment capital among countries)-Favourable   changes   in   population,population   structure   can   also   give   positiveinfluences   in   terms   of   economic   growth.Demography is important  because that  canbe   related   to   their   improvement   politicallyand economically.Lee (2003) argued:*Before Demographic Transition-High Birth Rates & High Death Rates (PGGRwas slow & population was young)-The   population   growth   was   slow   becausemany people who were being born but at thesame   time   there   are   also   a   lot   of   peopledying*During Demographic Transition-The mortality declined first which means thenumber   of   people   dying   slowed   downfollowed by Fertility (PGR to accelerate first,then slowdown, moving  toward  low fertility,long life and an old population)DEMOGRAPHIC TRANSITION MODELGrover 2014 explained that:-population   demographics   continued   toevolve as a result of the relationship betweenbirth and death rates within a country.-DMT uses death rates and birth rates-the   observation   and   the   documentation   ofthis global phenomenon produced a model.Lesthaege (2010)-The   declines   in   fertility   and   mortality   thatoccurred in western countries from the 18thto   19th   centuries   onward   and   during   thesecond half of the 20th century in much ofthe rest of the world.DMT IS*Actually   based   on   historical   populationtrends and this trend used the birth rate anddeath   rate,   because   of   these   trends   thedemographic   transition   model   created   fivestages   which   has   different   perspectives   interms of economic implications-suggesting that a country's total PGR cyclesthrough   stages   as   the   countries   developeconomically.STAGES OF DMT1. High fluctuation-Most   applicable   to   the   world   before   theindustrial revolution so which means before18th century -Both   birth   rates   and   death   rates   are   highand   as   a   result   the   population   growth;   itremains fair and constant (small PG)Reasons for High Birth Rates:1. Limited Birth Control2.High   Infant   Mortality(High   number   ofchildren   who  are  dying  encourages  parents
to   give   more   birth   okay   because   as   areplacement they need to bear more childrennumber)3. Economic Advantage (children were seenas   future   source   of   income   therefore   themindset   of   parents   would   be   moreeconomically beneficial for them if they havemore childrenReasons for High Death Rates:1. Diseases2. Poor Nutrition and famine3. Poor Hygiene2. High Birth Rate but Failing Death Rate-This   era   is   the   introduction   of   modernmedicine,   Advancement   of   medical   healthcare   that   lowered   death   rate   especiallyamong children-The population expanded rapidlyReasons for failing death rate1. Improved public health2. Better Nutrition3. Lower Child mortality3. Falling Birth Rate, continuing falling deathrate-The PG slows down-PG still continues but in a lower rate-most of the developing countries are in thisstage Reason for falling birth rate:1. Preferences for smaller families (cheaper)2. Changes in social trends and fashions3. Rise in Materialism4. Lower infant mortality Rate4. Low fluctuation-Low birth and death Rates -small PG-countries whom in this  stage tend to havestronger economies-changes in personal lifestyle-women   are   in   work   force   this   lessen   thecouples who are having kids)Reasons:1. Increase in women's status2. Higher level of education3. Strong Economies4. Better Health care5. Declining population-Death rate exceeds the birth rate-countries   who   experience   falling   fertilityrates   below   the   replacement   level   (poorchildren and the elderly population is greaterthan the youthful population)-this stage has been recently recognized -only   few   countries   are   considered   in   thisstage  Reasons for low birth rate:1. A rise in individualism2. Greater financial independence of women3. Lack of resources for future generations 4. An increase in non-traditional lifestyles.Limitations of DTM1.   Did   not   include   other   demographicvariables such as migration-migration   changes   population   of   a   certaincountry2. Did not predict how long a country will bein each stageWORLD'S DEMOGRAPHIC PROFILE (As of 10:05 pm, 11/28/18(world meter))A. World population-7,666,525,180 peopleB. Top 10 most populous countries1. China2. India3.  USA4. Indonesia5. Brazil6. Pakistan7. Nigeria8. Bangladesh9. Russia10. Mexico15. PhilippinesC. Top 10 least populous countries -majority   of   these   countries   are   art   ofmicronesia polynesia and melanesia1. Vatican City2. Tuvalu3. Nauru4. Palau5. Monaco6. San Marino7. Liechtenstein8. Saint Kitts and Nevis9. Dominica10. Marshall IslandsD. Top 10 densely populated countries1. Monaco2. ChinaMacao SAR3. Singapore4. China HK SAR5. Gibraltar
6. Bahrain7. Holy See8. Maldives 9. Malta 10. BangladeshE. Top 10 least densely populated country1. Greenland (Denmark)2. Falkland Island (UK)3. Pitcam Island (UK)4. Mongolia5. Namimbia6. French Guiana (France)7. Australia8. Iceland9. Suriname10. MauritaniaF. Top 10 largest urban Agglomerations1. Tokyo2. Delhi3. Shanghai4. Sao Paulo5. Mexico City6. Cairo7. Mumbai8. Beijing9. Dhaka10. OsakaTHE   WORLD'S   LOOMINDDEMOGRAPHICCRISIS1.   The   world's   population   could   reach   14billion by 21002.   Population  are  shrinking   in   much   of   thedeveloped world 3. Life span are growing almost everywhere-According   to   Mauldin,   Fertility   rates   andlonger   life   span   mean   that   population   aregetting   older,   soon   world   will   have   morepeople   over   age   65   than   it   has   childrenunder 5-The   elderly   population   is   growing   muchfaster   than   the   children   population   as   ourability   to   extend   life   spans   grows   thedisparity between these populations will getworse 4. Who will support children and the elderly?CONCLUSIONAccording to Mauldin (2016), none of this isgood news for either china or the rest of theworld   the   aging   of   world's   population   isbecoming a vast global issue that will affectmultiple domains and shape of the world inthe   coming   decades   it   is   already   havingprofound effects on the global economyTRIVIAit took 200 000 years to reach the first billionhumans   but   only   200   years   to   get   the   7billion

GLOBAL MIGRATION

Since the earliest times, humanity has been on the move. Some people move in search of work or economic opportunities, to join family, or to study. Others move to escape conflict, persecution, terrorism, or human rights violations. Still others move in response to the adverse effects of climate change, natural disasters, or other environmental factors.

Today, more people than ever live in a country other than the one in which they were born. According to the IOM World Migration Report 2020, as of June 2019 the number of international migrants was estimated to be almost 272 million globally, 51 million more than in 2010. Nearly two thirds were labour migrants. International migrants comprised 3.5 per cent of the global population in 2019. This compared to 2.8 per cent in 2000 and 2.3 per cent in 1980.

While many individuals migrate out of choice, many others migrate out of necessity. According to UNHCR, the number of globally forcibly displaced people worldwide was 79.5 million at the end of 2019. Of these, 26 million were refugees (20.4 million refugees under UNHCR’s mandate, 5.6 million Palestine refugees under UNRWA’s mandate).  45.7 million people were internally displaced, 4.2 million were asylum-seekers, and 3.6 million were Venezuelans displaced abroad.

Who is a migrant?

The UN Migration Agency (IOM) defines a migrant as any person who is moving or has moved across an international border or within a State away from his/her habitual place of residence, regardless of (1) the person’s legal status; (2) whether the movement is voluntary or involuntary; (3) what the causes for the movement are; or (4) what the length of the stay is.

Migrants and the SDGs
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development recognizes for the first time the contribution of migration to sustainable development. 11 out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) contain targets and indicators relevant to migration or mobility. The Agenda's core principle is to "leave no one behind," not even migrants.

The SDGs’ central reference to migration is made in target 10.7: to facilitate orderly, safe, regular and responsible migration and mobility of people, including through the implementation of planned and well-managed migration policies. Other targets directly related to migration mention trafficking, remittances, international student mobility and more. Moreover, migration is indirectly relevant to many more cross-cutting targets.

The International Organization for Migration (IOM)

Established in 1951, IOM is the leading inter-governmental organization in the field of migration. IOM works to ensure the orderly and humane management of migration, to promote international cooperation on migration issues, to assist in the search for practical solutions to migration problems and to provide humanitarian assistance to migrants in need, including refugees and internally displaced people. In 2016, IOM entered into an agreement with the United Nations (A/70/976), becoming one of its specialized agencies.

To promote diversity and inclusion of migrants in society, IOM has developed the platform ‘i am a migrant,’ which features first-hand accounts from individuals, providing insights into the experiences of migrants of all backgrounds and throughout their migratory journeys.

Data on migration
In 2019, the number of international migrants worldwide – people residing in a country other than their country of birth – reached almost 272 million (from 258 million in 2017). Female migrants constituted 48 per cent of international migrants. There were an estimated 38 million migrant children, three out of four international migrants were of working age, meaning between 20 and 64 years old. 164 million were migrant workers. Approximately 31% of the international migrants worldwide resided in Asia, 30% in Europe, 26% in the Americas, 10% in Africa and 3% in Oceania [Source: Global Migration Data Portal].

It can be a challenge to make sense of available migration data, as this is often scattered across different organisations and agencies, and not easily comparable. IOM’s Global Migration Data Analysis Centre runs the Global Migration Data Portal, which serves as a unique access point to timely, comprehensive migration statistics and reliable information about migration data globally. The site presents migration data from diverse sources and aims to help policy makers, national statistical officers, journalists and the general public interested in migration to navigate the increasingly complex landscape of migration data.

Global Action
Large-scale movements of refugees and migrants affect all UN Member States and they require closer cooperation and responsibility-sharing. In 2016, the UN General Assembly convened a high-level plenary meeting on addressing large movements of refugees and migrants. The UN Secretary-General prepared the report 'In Safety and Dignity: Addressing Large Movements of Refugees and Migrants' (A/70/59) with recommendations on the issue.


UN Member States adopted a set of commitments, known as the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants (A/RES/71/1), in which they recognized the need for a comprehensive approach to migration. The New York Declaration acknowledges the positive contribution of migrants to sustainable and inclusive development, and commits to protecting the safety, dignity and human rights and fundamental freedoms of all migrants, regardless of their migratory status.

In March 2017, the UN Secretary-General appointed Louise Arbour of Canada as his Special Representative for International Migration to lead the follow-up to the migration-related aspects of the High-Level Summit.

As a result of the New York Declaration, UN Member States agreed to work together to develop the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, adopted at an intergovernmental conference on international migration in December 2018 in Morocco. The GCM covers diverse issues such as strengthening labour rights for migrant workers, improving migration data as a basis for evidence-based policies, saving lives and establishing international efforts on missing migrants, and many others. The implementation of the GCM will represent progress in governing migration in a way that increases its benefits for individuals, communities and countries, and reduces its risks for all.

Global MigrationThe students are expected to:Analyze the political, economic, cultural, and social factors underlying the global movements of people Display first-hand knowledge of the experiences of the OFW’sGlobal Migration: Definitions and TypesMigration means crossing the boundary of a political or administrative unit for acertain minimum period (Boyle et al. 1998).boundary 1: Philippines boundary 2: south koreathe movement of people from one place to another with the purpose ofchanging their residence, either temporary or permanently.Internal migration- internal – within the country is the movement of people from one areasuch as a province, a district, or municipality toanother within one country.BUBBLENCR + bubble
Gapannuevaecija – boundary – checkpoint – Bulacan – boundary International migration -outside your country-state to state -is the crossing the frontiers which separate one of the world’s approximately 200 states from another.Many   scholars   argue   that   internal   andinternational migration are part of the sameprocess; they should be analyzed together.border crossing NOT migration – tourism/businessThe great majority of border crossings do not imply migration: mosttravelers   are   tourists   or   business   visitors   who   have   no   intention   ofstaying in the country for good.International migration arises in a world divided up into nation-states,in which remaining in the country of birth is still seen as norm andmoving to another country as a deviation.Migration tends to be regarded as problematic. It has to be controlledand curbed, for it may bring unpredictable changes.-political – education – changes – adjustments - International migrantsTemporary labor migrants  who migrate for a  limited period  of time in order to  work  and  sendremittances to families in the country of origin.Highly-skilled and business migrantspeople   with   qualifications   such   as   the   managers,   executives,professionals, technicians, and the like, who move within the internal labormarkets of transnational corporations and international organizations.
Irregular migrantsAlso known as the undocumented or illegal migrants.They enter the country in search for employment with no necessary documents and permits.Refugees-those who are unable or unwillingto return to their country becauseof   a   ‘well-founded   fear   ofpersecution  on   account   of   race,religion,   nationality,   membershipin   a   particular   social   group   orpolitical opinion.’ – R-RN-SP-someone who has been recognisedunder   the   1951   Conventionrelating to the status of refugees to be a refugee.-The definition of ‘refugee’ does not cover other individuals or groupsof people who leave their country only because of war or other civildisturbance, famine, natural disasters or in order to seek a betterlife.Asylum seekers-those who move across borders insearch of protection.--not because of persecution -just to seek for protectionForcedMigration (GENERAL )-not voluntary-refugees   –   asylum   seekers   –all kinds of forced movements in a broader sense, this includesnot only  refugees and asylum seekersbut   also   people   forced   to   move   byenvironmental   catastrophes   or   development   projects   like   new   factories,roads or dams.Some reasons for forced migrationDrought - A single drought can spell disaster for communities whoselives and livelihoods rely on regular, successful harvests. In a number
of African countries where Concern works — including Somalia, Kenya,and   Ethiopia   —   droughts   have   become   increasingly   severe,   leavingmillions of citizens without the ability to grow food. They rely on thisfood to feed themselves, their livestock, and their livelihoods.Family membersalso known as family reunion or family reunification migrants. Return migrants those who return to their countries of origin after a period in anothercountry.CAUSES OF MIGRATION1. Disparity in levels of income   -employment – compare salary here and in other countries -greener pasture 2. Employment   -lack of jobs -5 vacancy – 100 applicants – 95 of you – O 3. Social well-being   -social issues4. Differences in demographic patterns with regard to fertility,    mortality, age-structure, and labor-force growth-global demography-working group > dependents-dependents > working group -fertility rate >According   to   neo-classical   economic   theory,   the   main   cause   ofmigration   is  individual’s   efforts   to   maximize   their   income  bymoving from low-wage to high-wage economies.Migration   decisions   are   made   not   just   by   individuals-   they   oftenrepresent family strategies to maximize income and survival chances.Two Factors of Migration:1. Push Factor   - any human or nature factors that encourage or force people to leave a settlement or residence.a. Social push factor
b. Political push factorc. Economic push factord. Environmental push factorproblem = push you out of the country2. Pull Factor   any human or nature factors that attract people to live in a new residential area or locationa. Social pull factorb. Political pull factorc. Economic pull factord. Environmental pull factoryour residence gives you enough  - attractive offer outside that pulls you to it The Volume of Contemporary MigrationThe   United  Nations  figures   show   that   the  global   migrant   stock   (thenumber of  people resident in a   place outside  their country  of  birth)grew from 75 million in 1965 to 120 million in 1990.The 1990 figure was roughly equal to 2% of the world’s population.The number of migrants grew slightly faster than world population as awhole,   but   the   annual   growth   rate   of   1.9%   for   the   whole   periodincreasing to 2.6% from 1985-1990 was not dramatic.International migrants remain a fairly small minority.Internal migration,conversely, is much larger,For instance the number of internal migrants in India in 1981 was some200 million, more than double the number of international migrants inthe whole world at that time.The significance of migration as a major factor in societal change liesin the fact that it is concentrated in certain countries and regions.Migration   affects   certain   areas   within   both   the   sending   and   thereceiving countries more than others.Migration   needs   to   take   place   in   an   orderly   way   to   safeguard   thehuman rights of migrants.Labor Code – POEA/ DOLE - LAWS to protect migrants
Reference:https://olfu.instructure.com/courses/74053/files/6753254?module_item_id=5876558

International migration occurs when people cross state boundaries and stay in the host state for some minimum length of the time.[1] Migration occurs for many reasons. Many people leave their home countries in order to look for economic opportunities in another country. Others migrate to be with family members who have migrated or because of political conditions in their countries. Education is another reason for international migration, as students pursue their studies abroad, although this migration is often temporary, with a return to the home country after the studies are completed.[2]

Contents
Categories of migrants
Edit
While there are several different potential systems for categorising international migrants, one system organizes them into nine groups:

temporary labor migrants
irregular, illegal, or undocumented migrants
highly skilled and business migrants
refugees
asylum seekers
forced migration
family members
return migrants
long-term, low-skilled migrants[3]
These migrants can also be divided into two large groups, permanent and temporary. Permanent migrants intend to establish their permanent residence in a new country and possibly obtain that country's citizenship. Temporary migrants intend only to stay for a limited periods of time, perhaps until the end of a particular program of study or for the duration of a their work contract or a certain work season.[4] Both types of migrants have a significant effect on the economies and societies of the chosen destination country and the country of origin.[5]

Countries receiving migrants
Edit
Countries which receive migrants have been grouped by academics into four categories: traditional settlement countries, European countries which encouraged labour migration after World War II, European countries which receive a significant portion of their immigrant populations from their former colonies, and countries which formerly were points of emigration but have recently emerged as immigrant destinations.[6] These countries are grouped according to a dichotomy, either migrant-sending or migrant-receiving countries, which have distinct governance issues. But this dichotomy is artificial, and it obscures issues from view, for example, when a net migrant-sending country is also a 'receiver' of migrants.[7]


All things considered, countries like the UAE have the most comprehensive multicultural population, accounting for almost 84% of the total population. Not only United Arab Emirates (UAE), but countries like Qatar also has 74%, Kuwait has 60%, and Bahrain has 55% of their entire population are full of diverse people who emigrate from different countries such as (India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan) which increased population by 500% over the increase from 1.3 million in 1990 to 7.8 million in 2013.[8]

Compared with the two governments in the United States, the Trump administration doubled the number of asylum and refugee seekers in the previous Obama administration by 12,000, and by 2020 it will only be 18,000.[needs update] According to data from the immigration and border service, claims expected for this year[when?] will rise to almost three times those of previous years, while only less half than previous administrations have been accepted. The number of reports returned to the Obama administration is 110,000, reaching 368,000 by 2020.[9]

In these countries, economic development enabled by remittances, transnational activism in support of outgoing migrant rights, as well as rights for incoming migrants are issues.[10] As people began to immigrate to different countries to support them financially, they also contributed to their country's economy by sending their income as remittances. According to a report by the World Bank, officials said that people from different countries remitted nearly US$400 billion in 2015, and this is increasing every year, with an increase of 0.4%, reaching US$586 billion in the following year.[11]

Statistics
Edit
Further information: Human migration § Migration statistics
It has been predicted, that on average at least "50% of the world population would live in a foreign country" if restrictions of immigration were to be liberalised.[12]

Incentives for migration
Edit
Push Factors

Poor Medical Care
Not enough jobs
Few opportunities
Primitive Conditions
Political fear
Fear of torture and mistreatment
Religious discrimination
Loss of wealth
Natural disasters
Bullying
Lower chances of finding courtship
Pull Factors

Chances of getting a job
Better living standards
Enjoyment
Education
Better Medical Care
Security
Family Links
Lower Crime
Better chances of finding courtship

SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT


Sustainable development is an organizing principle that aims to meet human development goals while also enabling natural systems to provide necessary natural resources and ecosystem services to humans. The desired result is a society where living conditions and resources meet human needs without undermining the planetary integrity and stability of the natural system.[2][3] Sustainable development tries to find a balance between economic development, environmental protection, and social well-being. The Brundtland Report in 1987 defined sustainable development as "development that meets the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs".[4][5] The concept of sustainable development nowadays has a focus on economic development, social development and environmental protection for future generations.

Sustainable development was first institutionalized with the Rio Process initiated at the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. In 2015 the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (2015 to 2030) and explained how the goals are integrated and indivisible to achieve sustainable development at the global level.[6] The UNGA's 17 goals address the global challenges, including poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, peace, and justice.

Sustainable development is interlinked with the normative concept of sustainability. UNESCO formulated a distinction between the two concepts as follows: "Sustainability is often thought of as a long-term goal (i.e. a more sustainable world), while sustainable development refers to the many processes and pathways to achieve it."[7] The concept of sustainable development has been criticized in various ways. While some see it as paradoxical (or as an oxymoron) and regard development as inherently unsustainable, others are disappointed in the lack of progress that has been achieved so far.[8][9] Part of the problem is that "development" itself is not consistently defined.[10]: 16 
Contents
Definition
Edit
In 1987, the United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development released the report Our Common Future, commonly called the Brundtland Report.[4] The report included a definition of "sustainable development" which is now widely used:[4][11]

Sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It contains two key concepts within it:

The concept of 'needs', in particular, the essential needs of the world's poor, to which overriding priority should be given; and
The idea of limitations imposed by the state of technology and social organization on the environment's ability to meet present and future needs.
— World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future (1987)
Sustainable development thus tries to find a balance between economic development, environmental protection, and social well-being.

Related concepts
Edit
Sustainability
Edit
This section is an excerpt from Sustainability.[edit]

Several visual representations of sustainability and its three dimensions: the left image shows sustainability as three intersecting circles. In the top right it is a nested approach. In the bottom right it is three pillars.[12] The schematic with the nested ellipses emphasizes a hierarchy of the dimensions, putting environment as the foundation for the other two.
Sustainability is a social goal for people to co-exist on Earth over a long time. Specific definitions of this term are disputed and have varied with literature, context, and time.[13][12] Experts often describe sustainability as having three dimensions (or pillars): environmental, economic, and social,[12] and many publications emphasize the environmental dimension.[14][15] In everyday use,[specify] sustainability often focuses on countering major environmental problems, including climate change, loss of biodiversity, loss of ecosystem services, land degradation, and air and water pollution. The idea of sustainability can guide decisions at the global, national, and individual levels (e.g. sustainable living).[16] A related concept is sustainable development, and the terms are often used to mean the same thing.[17] UNESCO distinguishes the two like this: "Sustainability is often thought of as a long-term goal (i.e. a more sustainable world), while sustainable development refers to the many processes and pathways to achieve it."[18]
Development of the concept
Edit
See also: Sustainability
Sustainable development has its roots in ideas regarding sustainable forest management, which were developed in Europe during the 17th and 18th centuries.[19][20][21] In response to a growing awareness of the depletion of timber resources in England, John Evelyn argued, in his 1662 essay Sylva, that "sowing and planting of trees had to be regarded as a national duty of every landowner, in order to stop the destructive over-exploitation of natural resources." In 1713, Hans Carl von Carlowitz, a senior mining administrator in the service of Elector Frederick Augustus I of Saxony published Sylvicultura economics, a 400-page work on forestry. Building upon the ideas of Evelyn and French minister Jean-Baptiste Colbert, von Carlowitz developed the concept of managing forests for sustained yield.[19] His work influenced others, including Alexander von Humboldt and Georg Ludwig Hartig, eventually leading to the development of the science of forestry. This, in turn, influenced people like Gifford Pinchot, the first head of the US Forest Service, whose approach to forest management was driven by the idea of wise use of resources, and Aldo Leopold whose land ethic was influential in the development of the environmental movement in the 1960s.[19][20]

Following the publication of Rachel Carson's Silent Spring in 1962, the developing environmental movement drew attention to the relationship between economic growth and environmental degradation. Kenneth E. Boulding, in his influential 1966 essay The Economics of the Coming Spaceship Earth, identified the need for the economic system to fit itself to the ecological system with its limited pools of resources.[20] Another milestone was the 1968 article by Garrett Hardin that popularized the term "tragedy of the commons".[22]

The direct linking of sustainability and development in a contemporary sense can be traced to the early 1970s. "Strategy of Progress", a 1972 book (in German) by Ernst Basler, explained how the long-acknowledged sustainability concept of preserving forests for future wood production can be directly transferred to the broader importance of preserving environmental resources to sustain the world for future generations.[23] That same year, the interrelationship of environment and development was formally demonstrated in a systems dynamic simulation model reported in the classic report on Limits to Growth. It was commissioned by the Club of Rome and written by a group of scientists led by Dennis and Donella Meadows of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Describing the desirable "state of global equilibrium", the authors wrote: "We are searching for a model output that represents a world system that is sustainable without sudden and uncontrolled collapse and capable of satisfying the basic material requirements of all of its people."[24] Also in 1972 was publication of the influential book, A Blueprint for Survival.[25][26]

In 1975, an MIT research group prepared ten days of hearings on "Growth and Its Implication for the Future" for the US Congress, the first hearings ever held on sustainable development.[27]

In 1980, the International Union for Conservation of Nature published a world conservation strategy that included one of the first references to sustainable development as a global priority[28] and introduced the term "sustainable development".[29]: 4  Two years later, the United Nations World Charter for Nature raised five principles of conservation by which human conduct affecting nature is to be guided and judged.[30]

Since the Brundtland Report, the concept of sustainable development has developed beyond the initial intergenerational framework to focus more on the goal of "socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic growth".[29]: 5  In 1992, the UN Conference on Environment and Development published the Earth Charter, which outlines the building of a just, sustainable, and peaceful global society in the 21st century. The action plan Agenda 21 for sustainable development identified information, integration, and participation as key building blocks to help countries achieve development that recognizes these interdependent pillars. Furthermore, Agenda 21 emphasizes that broad public participation in decision-making is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving sustainable development.[31]

The Rio Protocol was a huge leap forward: for the first time, the world agreed on a sustainability agenda. In fact, a global consensus was facilitated by neglecting concrete goals and operational details. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) now have concrete targets (unlike the results from the Rio Process) but no methods for sanctions.[32][10]: 137 

Dimensions
Edit
Main article: Sustainability § Dimensions of sustainability
Sustainable development, like sustainability, is regarded to have three dimensions: the environment, economy and society. The idea is that a good balance between the three dimensions should be achieved. Instead of calling them dimensions, other terms commonly used are pillars, domains, aspects, spheres.

This section is an excerpt from Sustainability § Development of three dimensions.[edit]

Sustainability Venn diagram, where sustainability is thought of as the area where the three dimensions overlap
Scholars usually distinguish three different areas of sustainability. These are the environmental, the social, and the economic. Several terms are in use for this concept. Authors may speak of three pillars, dimensions, components, aspects,[33] perspectives, factors, or goals. All mean the same thing in this context.[12] The three dimensions paradigm has few theoretical foundations. It emerged without a single point of origin.[12][34] Scholars rarely question the distinction itself. The idea of sustainability with three dimensions is a dominant interpretation in the literature.[12]

Countries could develop systems for monitoring and evaluation of progress towards achieving sustainable development by adopting indicators that measure changes across economic, social and environmental dimensions.

— United Nations Conference on Environment & Development – Earth Summit (1992), [35]: 8.6 
Critique
Edit
Main article: Sustainability § Critique
Further information: Weak and strong sustainability, Degrowth, and Eco-economic decoupling
The concept of sustainable development has been and still is, subject to criticism, including the question of what is to be sustained in sustainable development. It has been argued that there is no such thing as sustainable use of a non-renewable resource, since any positive rate of exploitation will eventually lead to the exhaustion of earth's finite stock;[36]: 13  this perspective renders the Industrial Revolution as a whole unsustainable.[37]: 20f [38]: 61–67 [39]: 22f 

The sustainable development debate is based on the assumption that societies need to manage three types of capital (economic, social, and natural), which may be non-substitutable and whose consumption might be irreversible.[40] Natural capital can not necessarily be substituted by economic capital.[39] While it is possible that we can find ways to replace some natural resources, it is much less likely that they will ever be able to replace ecosystem services, such as the protection provided by the ozone layer, or the climate stabilizing function of the Amazonian forest.

The concept of sustainable development has been criticized from different angles. While some see it as paradoxical (or an oxymoron) and regard development as inherently unsustainable, others are disappointed in the lack of progress that has been achieved so far.[8][9] Part of the problem is that "development" itself is not consistently defined.[10]: 16 [41] Such a viewpoint contradicts the mainstream academic community, which frequently concedes that the processes of capitalism are incompatible with the long-term sustainability of human life.

The vagueness of the Brundtland definition of sustainable development has been criticized as follows:[10]: 17  The definition has "opened up the possibility of downplaying sustainability. Hence, governments spread the message that we can have it all at the same time, i.e. economic growth, prospering societies and a healthy environment. No new ethic is required. This so-called weak version of sustainability is popular among governments, and businesses, but profoundly wrong and not even weak, as there is no alternative to preserving the earth's ecological integrity."[42]: 2 

Pathways
Edit
Further information: Sustainability § Sustainability transitions
Requirements
Edit
Six interdependent capacities are deemed to be necessary for the successful pursuit of sustainable development.[1] These are the capacities to measure progress towards sustainable development; promote equity within and between generations; adapt to shocks and surprises; transform the system onto more sustainable development pathways; link knowledge with action for sustainability; and to devise governance arrangements that allow people to work together.

Environmental characteristics of sustainable cities
Edit
A sustainable city is an urban center that improves its environmental impact through urban planning and management. For the definition of an eco-city, imagine a city with parks and green spaces, solar-powered buildings, rooftop gardens, and more pedestrians and bicycles than cars. This is not a futuristic dream. Smart cities are actively moving towards greener urban ecosystems and better environmental management.[43]

Further information: Human impact on the environment and Ecological footprint

Deforestation of the Amazon rainforest. Deforestation and increased road-building in the Amazon rainforest are a concern because of increased human encroachment upon wilderness areas, increased resource extraction and further threats to biodiversity.
Environmental sustainability concerns the natural environment and how it endures and remains diverse and productive. Since natural resources are derived from the environment, the state of air, water, and climate is of particular concern. Environmental sustainability requires society to design activities to meet human needs while preserving the life support systems of the planet. This, for example, entails using water sustainably, using renewable energy and sustainable material supplies (e.g. harvesting wood from forests at a rate that maintains the biomass and biodiversity).[44]

An unsustainable situation occurs when natural capital (the total of nature's resources) is used up faster than it can be replenished.[45]: 58  Sustainability requires that human activity only uses nature's resources at a rate at which they can be replenished naturally. The concept of sustainable development is intertwined with the concept of carrying capacity. Theoretically, the long-term result of environmental degradation is the inability to sustain human life.[45]

Important operational principles of sustainable development were published by Herman Daly in 1990: renewable resources should provide a sustainable yield (the rate of harvest should not exceed the rate of regeneration); for non-renewable resources there should be equivalent development of renewable substitutes; waste generation should not exceed the assimilative capacity of the environment.[46]

Summary of different levels of consumption of natural resources.[45]: 58 
Consumption of natural resources	State of the environment	State of sustainability
More than nature's ability to replenish	Environmental degradation	Not sustainable
Equal to nature's ability to replenish	Environmental equilibrium	Steady state economy
Less than nature's ability to replenish	Environmental renewal	Environmentally sustainable
Land use changes, agriculture and food
Edit
Further information: Environmental impact of agriculture
Environmental problems associated with industrial agriculture and agribusiness are now being addressed through approaches such as sustainable agriculture, organic farming and more sustainable business practices.[47] The most cost-effective climate change mitigation options include afforestation, sustainable forest management, and reducing deforestation.[48] At the local level there are various movements working towards sustainable food systems which may include less meat consumption, local food production, slow food, sustainable gardening, and organic gardening.[49] The environmental effects of different dietary patterns depend on many factors, including the proportion of animal and plant foods consumed and the method of food production.[50][51]

Materials and waste
Edit

Ecological footprint for different nations compared to their Human Development Index (2007)

Before flue-gas desulfurization was installed, the air-polluting emissions from this power plant in New Mexico contained excessive amounts of sulfur dioxide.
Further information: Cradle-to-cradle
As global population and affluence have increased, so has the use of various materials increased in volume, diversity, and distance transported. Included here are raw materials, minerals, synthetic chemicals (including hazardous substances), manufactured products, food, living organisms, and waste.[52] By 2050, humanity could consume an estimated 140 billion tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels and biomass per year (three times its current amount) unless the economic growth rate is decoupled from the rate of natural resource consumption. Developed countries' citizens consume an average of 16 tons of those four key resources per capita per year, ranging up to 40 or more tons per person in some developed countries with resource consumption levels far beyond what is likely sustainable. By comparison, the average person in India today consumes four tons per year.[53]

Sustainable use of materials has targeted the idea of dematerialization, converting the linear path of materials (extraction, use, disposal in landfill) to a circular material flow that reuses materials as much as possible, much like the cycling and reuse of waste in nature.[54] Dematerialization is being encouraged through the ideas of industrial ecology, eco design[55] and ecolabelling.

This way of thinking is expressed in the concept of circular economy, which employs reuse, sharing, repair, refurbishment, remanufacturing and recycling to create a closed-loop system, minimizing the use of resource inputs and the creation of waste, pollution and carbon emissions.[56] Building electric vehicles has been one of the most popular ways in the field of sustainable development, the potential of using reusable energy and reducing waste offered a perspective in sustainable development.[57] The European Commission has adopted an ambitious Circular Economy Action Plan in 2020, which aims at making sustainable products the norm in the EU.[58][59]

Biodiversity and ecosystem services
Edit
There is a connection between ecosystems and biodiversity. Ecosystems are made up of various living things interacting with one another and their surroundings. Along with this, biodiversity lays the groundwork for ecosystems to function well by defining the kinds of species that can coexist in an environment, as well as their functions and interactions with other species.[60][61] In 2019, a summary for policymakers of the largest, most comprehensive study to date of biodiversity and ecosystem services was published by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services. It recommended that human civilization will need a transformative change, including sustainable agriculture, reductions in consumption and waste, fishing quotas and collaborative water management.[62][63] Biodiversity is not only crucial for the well-being of animals and wildlife but also plays a positive role in the lives of human beings in the way in which it aids development of human life.[64]

Management of human consumption and impacts
Edit
Further information: Consumption (economics), Overconsumption, and Micro-sustainability

Waste generation, measured in kilograms per person per day
The environmental impact of a community or humankind as a whole depends both on population and impact per person, which in turn depends in complex ways on what resources are being used, whether or not those resources are renewable, and the scale of the human activity relative to the carrying capacity of the ecosystems involved.[65] Careful resource management can be applied at many scales, from economic sectors like agriculture, manufacturing and industry, to work organizations, the consumption patterns of households and individuals, and the resource demands of individual goods and services.[66][67]

The underlying driver of direct human impacts on the environment is human consumption.[68] This impact is reduced by not only consuming less but also making the full cycle of production, use, and disposal more sustainable. Consumption of goods and services can be analyzed and managed at all scales through the chain of consumption, starting with the effects of individual lifestyle choices and spending patterns, through to the resource demands of specific goods and services, the impacts of economic sectors, through national economies to the global economy.[69] Key resource categories relating to human needs are food, energy, raw materials and water.

Improving on economic and social aspects
Edit
Further information: Corporate sustainability and Sustainable business
It has been suggested that because of rural poverty and overexploitation, environmental resources should be treated as important economic assets, called natural capital.[70] Economic development has traditionally required a growth in the gross domestic product. This model of unlimited personal and GDP growth may be over. Sustainable development may involve improvements in the quality of life for many but may necessitate a decrease in resource consumption.[71] "Growth" generally ignores the direct effect that the environment may have on social welfare, whereas "development" takes it into account.[72]

As early as the 1970s, the concept of sustainability was used to describe an economy "in equilibrium with basic ecological support systems".[73] Scientists in many fields have highlighted The Limits to Growth,[74][75] and economists have presented alternatives, for example a 'steady-state economy', to address concerns over the impacts of expanding human development on the planet.[39] In 1987, the economist Edward Barbier published the study The Concept of Sustainable Economic Development, where he recognized that goals of environmental conservation and economic development are not conflicting and can be reinforcing each other.[76]

A World Bank study from 1999 concluded that based on the theory of genuine savings (defined as "traditional net savings less the value of resource depletion and environmental degradation plus the value of investment in human capital"), policymakers have many possible interventions to increase sustainability, in macroeconomics or purely environmental.[77] Several studies have noted that efficient policies for renewable energy and pollution are compatible with increasing human welfare, eventually reaching a golden-rule[clarification needed] steady state.[78][79][80][81]

A meta review in 2002 looked at environmental and economic valuations and found a "lack of concrete understanding of what "sustainability policies" might entail in practice".[82] A study concluded in 2007 that knowledge, manufactured and human capital (health and education) has not compensated for the degradation of natural capital in many parts of the world.[83] It has been suggested that intergenerational equity can be incorporated into a sustainable development and decision making, as has become common in economic valuations of climate economics.[84]

The World Business Council for Sustainable Development published a Vision 2050 document in 2021 to show "How business can lead the transformations the world needs". The vision states that "we envision a world in which 9+billion people can live well, within planetary boundaries, by 2050."[85] This report was highlighted by The Guardian as "the largest concerted corporate sustainability action plan to date – include reversing the damage done to ecosystems, addressing rising greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring societies move to sustainable agriculture."[86]

Gender and leadership in sustainable development
Edit
Gender and sustainable development have been examined, focusing on women's leadership potential and barriers to it. While leadership roles in sustainable development have become more androgynous over time, patriarchal structures and perceptions continue to constrain women from becoming leaders.[87] Some hidden issues are women's lack of self-confidence, impeding access to leadership roles, but men can potentially play a role as allies for women's leadership.[87]

Barriers
Edit
There are barriers that small and medium enterprises face when implementing sustainable development such as lack of expertise, lack of resources, and high initial capital cost of implementing sustainability measures.[88]

Globally, the scale of collective action and lack of political will are barriers to achieving sustainable development.[41][89] To overcome these challenges, governments must jointly form an agreement of social and political strength. Efforts to enact reforms or design and implement programs to decrease the harmful effects of human behaviors allow for progress toward present and future environmental sustainability goals.[90] The Paris Agreement exemplifies efforts of political will on a global level, a multinational agreement between 193 parties [91] intended to strengthen the global response to climate change by reducing emissions and working together to adjust to the consequent effects of climate change.[91] Experts continue to firmly suggest that governments should do more outside of The Paris Agreement, there persist a greater need for political will.[92]

Another barrier towards sustainable development would be negative externalities that may potentially arise from implementing sustainable development technology. One example would be the development of lithium-ion batteries, a key element towards environmental sustainability and the reduction in reliance towards fossil fuels. However, currently with the technology and methodology available, Lithium production poses a negative environmental impact during its extraction from the earth as it uses a method very similar to fracking as well as during its processing to be used as a battery which is a chemically intensive process.[93] One suggested solution would be to weigh the possibility of recycling as this will cut down on the waste of old lithium as well as reducing the need for extracting new lithium from the ground, however, this sustainable development solution is barred from implementation by a high initial cost as studies have shown that recycling old technology for the purpose of extracting metals such as lithium and cobalt is typically more expensive than extracting them from the ground and processing them.[citation needed]

Taking into account the pandemic is also something that needs to be considered in the SDG process. Especially for developing countries exposed to social problems affected by COVID-19, the connection between post-epidemic recovery and SDG needs to be discussed and studied.[94] The COVID-19 pandemic has provided substantial roadblocks towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). While the long-term effects of COVID-19 on SDGs is limited, research has shown that SDG 1, SDG 4, and SDG 8 are the most likely to be adversely affected by the pandemic. One of the strategies proposed towards SDG in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic is green management, or the government strategy of utilizing resources such as water and energy with the intention to change resource consumption behavior. Other strategies include erecting sustainable food systems, labor market energization, inclusive education, and supporting research in the energy sector.[95]

Society and culture
Edit
Sustainable development goals
Edit

The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
This section is an excerpt from Sustainable Development Goals.[edit]
The Sustainable Development Goals or Global Goals are a collection of seventeen interlinked objectives designed to serve as a "shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future."[96][97][98] The SDGs are no poverty; zero hunger; good health and well-being; quality education; gender equality; clean water and sanitation; affordable and clean energy; decent work and economic growth; industry, innovation and infrastructure; reduced inequalities; sustainable cities and communities; responsible consumption and production; climate action; life below water; life on land; peace, justice, and strong institutions; and partnerships for the goals. The SDGs emphasize the interconnected environmental, social and economic aspects of sustainable development by putting sustainability at their center.[99][100]

The SDGs were formulated in 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) as part of the Post-2015 Development Agenda, which sought to create a future global development framework to succeed the Millennium Development Goals, which ended that year.[101] They were formally articulated and adopted in a UNGA resolution called the 2030 Agenda, known colloquially as Agenda 2030.[102] On 6 July 2017, the SDGs were made more actionable by a UNGA resolution that identifies specific targets for each goal and provides indicators to measure progress.[103] Most targets are to be achieved by 2030, although some have no end date.[104] The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has also taken the initiative to achieve the SDGs by offering their support to developing countries.[105] For example, the IMF works to reduce poverty in low-income developing countries by offering financial support during the COVID-19 pandemic.

There are cross-cutting issues and synergies between the different goals; for example, for SDG 13 on climate action, the IPCC sees robust synergies with SDGs 3 (health), 7 (clean energy), 11 (cities and communities), 12 (responsible consumption and production) and 14 (oceans).[106][107]: 70  Conversely, critics and observers have also identified trade-offs between the goals,[107]: 67 such as between ending hunger and promoting environmental sustainability.[108]: 26  Other concerns include there being too many goals (resulting in compounding trade-offs), a weak emphasis on environmental sustainability, and difficulties tracking qualitative indicators.
Education for sustainable development
Edit
Education for sustainable development (ESD) is a term officially used by the United Nations and is defined as education practices that encourage changes in knowledge, skills, values and attitudes to enable a more sustainable and just society for humanity. ESD aims to empower and equip current and future generations to meet their needs using a balanced and integrated approach to the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development.[109][110]

Agenda 21 was the first international document that identified education as an essential tool for achieving sustainable development and highlighted areas of action for education.[111][112] ESD is a component of measurement in an indicator for Sustainable Development Goal 12 (SDG) for "responsible consumption and production". SDG 12 has 11 targets and target 12.8 is "By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature."[113] 20 years after the Agenda 21 document was declared, the 'Future we want' document was declared in the Rio+20 UN Conference on Sustainable Development, stating that "We resolve to promote education for sustainable development and to integrate sustainable development more actively into education beyond the Decade of Education for Sustainable Development."[114]

One version of education for Sustainable Development recognizes modern-day environmental challenges and seeks to define new ways to adjust to a changing biosphere, as well as engage individuals to address societal issues that come with them [115] In the International Encyclopedia of Education, this approach to education is seen as an attempt to "shift consciousness toward an ethics of life-giving relationships that respects the interconnectedness of man to his natural world" in order to equip future members of society with environmental awareness and a sense of responsibility to sustainability.[116]

For UNESCO, education for sustainable development involves:

integrating key sustainable development issues into teaching and learning. This may include, for example, instruction about climate change, disaster risk reduction, biodiversity, and poverty reduction and sustainable consumption. It also requires participatory teaching and learning methods that motivate and empower learners to change their behaviours and take action for sustainable development. ESD consequently promotes competencies like critical thinking, imagining future scenarios and making decisions in a collaborative way.[117][118]

The Thessaloniki Declaration, presented at the "International Conference on Environment and Society: Education and Public Awareness for Sustainability" by UNESCO and the Government of Greece (December 1997), highlights the importance of sustainability not only with regards to the natural environment, but also with "poverty, health, food security, democracy, human rights, and peace".

GLOBAL FOOD SECURITY

Pangasinan State UniversitySan Carlos CampusS.Y. 2021-2021San Carlos City PangasinanGLOBAL FOOD SECURITY I. INTRODUCTION Food is the first basic human need and fundamental right of every human being,having constitutional guarantees in almost all countries. That's why the UNO recognized theRight to food in the Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, vital for the enjoyment of all otherrights. Although food security has always been a crucial issue, there is increasing globalconcern in it after 2007/8 food crises which is reinforced whenever food prices start rising.Food security is about the ability of every human being physically, economically, and sociallyto gain access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food to accommodate their dietary plans andfood preferences in order to get a healthy life. The conditions of food security nowadays areaffected from so many factors such as food system, nutrition, and climate change that wouldcontribute in either the development of food security or retreat of food security that will leadto the global food insecurity. There are also four basis of food security, which are availability,accessibility, utilizations and stability. These four basis would help finding every country’sfood security conditions.The conditions of food system are affecting the decisions of every human being ontheir dietary plans, nutritional status and the sustainability of food system. The amount ofadequate food consumed by human also measures the conditions of food system nowadayssince it is every human being’s right to gain adequate foods. Another thing that affects theconditions of food security nowadays is nutrition. Nutrition is the most concerning one. Theconcern of  nutrition  of   food   security includes malnutrition   and   hunger that would rapidlyescalates into a more critical conditions if it doesn’t being overcome soon. This conditioncould bring the set back of global food security. However, to overcome this issue, agriculturalsector must play roles in improving nutrition and food security.However, climate change also plays important role in global food security where it isactually the root cause of food insecurity. Climate change is a major challenge for globalfood security specially in dryland such as Africa  and Middle East. It also gives potentialimpact on the four basis of food security. In this issue, International Organization takes partto overcome and avoid food insecurity and also develop the sustainability of food security.This topic is very important to be discussed because global food security gives majorimpacts on human being’s condition and how they would be able to survive to gain adequatefood. Hence, global food security is also important to understand global food security indexso that we could  find   out   which   country needs  to  be improved and what aspects  eachcountry should maintain or develop.Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2-B
II. BODY/CONTENTHunger is that painful sensation, or exhausted condition that one feels from want of food.Also, scarcity of food. Pope Benedict XVI, during summit of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization(FAO) in 2009 in Rome referred to hunger as “the most cruel and concrete sign of poverty”Global Food Security Refers to  the  availability and  accessibility  of   an individual   to  get   sufficientquantity of food that is reliable and affordable to the individual. A  household  is considered food secure   when its  occupants   do not   live   inhunger or fear of starvation. According to The World Food Summit of 1996 defined food security as “when all people at alltimes have access to sufficient, safe, nutritious food to maintain a healthy and active life”The United States is leading international efforts to address the need that peoplearound the world have for reliable sources of quality food. American aid is, in part, directed tofood   security   —   ensuring   every   nation   has   the   ability   to   feed   its   population   adequateamounts of nutritional foods.FOOD SECURITY - EVOLUTIONDuring 1970s, food crisis created awareness for food security and led to formal institutionalresponse globally. However, food availability through buffer stocks was considered enoughfor ensuring food security.During 1980s, concern with increased poverty added access to food as essential as foodavailability for food security.During 1990s, interest in human development led to absorption of food also as an essentialcomponent of food security. During 2000s,  recurring  food crises  necessitated   to  include  stability  as  one of  the   maincomponents of food security. During   2010s,   evidence   of   increasing   malnutrition   among   the   children/females   led   toinclusion of nutrition also as an essential element of food security. Now food security means 5 things:Food is available in country It is accessible to people, physically and financially People are healthy to absorb itFood Supplies / prices are stable over periodIt is nutritious enough to sustain in a human body. Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2-B
IMPORTANCE OF GLOBAL FOOD SECURITYGrowth in the agriculture sector has been found, on average, to be at least twice aseffective in reducing poverty as growth in other sectors. Food insecurity – often rooted inpoverty   –   decreases   the   ability   of   countries   to   develop   their   agricultural   markets   andeconomies.Access to quality, nutritious food is fundamental to human existence. Secure accessto food can produce wide ranging positive impacts, including:Economic growth and job creationPoverty reductionTrade opportunitiesIncreased global security and stabilityImproved health and healthcareNational Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA)  is   a   U.S.   federal   government   body   whose   creation   was   mandated   in   the   Food,Conservation, and Energy Act of  2008. Its purpose is to consolidate all  federally  fundedagricultural research, and it is subordinate to the Department of Agriculture.NIFA’S IMPACTNIFA supports global efforts to strengthen agricultural production and end hunger by:Helping   countries   to   improve   their   agricultural   markets   and   increase   foodproductionFunding research  to  heighten disease resistance  in beans and  increase   cropproductionJoining with USDA and other federal agencies on global initiatives intended tobreak the cycle of hunger and povertyDeveloping and testing new food products designed to improve the nutritionalvalue of the food aid that is delivered overseasStrengthening developing countries’ extension systemsHelping  developing countries improve their agricultural economiesThe United States Department of Agriculture (USDA)Also   known   as   the  Agriculture   Department,   is   the   federal   executive   departmentresponsible   for   developing   and   executing   federal   laws   related   to   farming,   forestry,   ruraleconomic development, and food. It aims to meet the needs of commercial farming andlivestock food production, promotes agricultural trade and production, works to assure foodsafety, protects natural resources, fosters rural communities and works to end hunger in theUnited States and internationally.The USDA is made up of 29 agencies and offices, which include valuable resourceslike the  Forest Service, the Center   for Nutrition Policy  and   Promotion, and the NationalContemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2-B
Agricultural   Library.   Its   programs   help   provide   the   following   services,   among   others:broadband   access   in   rural   areas;   disaster   assistance   to   farmers,   ranchers,   and   ruralresidents;   soil,   water,   and   other   natural   resource   conservation   to   landowners;   wildfireprevention; and agricultural research and statistics.The USDA also is responsible for several social welfare programs, including: schoolmeal nutrition; nutrition education; food assistance for women, infants, and children (WIC);and the food stamp program (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP).The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Is a specialized agency of the United Nations for food, nutrition, agriculture, fisheriesand forestry. FAO’s global vision is for a world free from hunger and malnutrition where foodand agriculture contribute to improving the living standards of all especially the poorest, in aneconomically, socially and environmentally sustainable manner.The   Food   and  Agriculture   Organization   (FAO),   a   UN   agency,   strives   to   combathunger and reduce poverty globally by improving agricultural, forestry, and fishingpractices.Funded  by industrialized countries  and development  banks, the FAO often  worksthrough public-private partnerships.Rather than directly administer aid or food, the FAO attempts to set up sustainablefood sources, resources, and operational systems in nations.The   FAO   works   to   promote public-private   partnerships,   improve small   holderagriculture, and develop mechanisms to monitor, reduce, and warn about hazards to thefood   chain.  Funding   comes   from   industrialized countries,   development   banks,   and   othersources.The 7 Departments of FAO1. The Agriculture and Consumer Protection Department promotes agriculture to eradicate human poverty while also protecting the environment and ensuring safe food practices and standards.2. The Climate, Biodiversity, Land and Water Department promotes sustainable management practices for land, soils, energy, water, biodiversity, and genetic resources.3. The Corporate Services Department supports the entire FAO organization.4. The Economic and Social Development Department promotes economic development through internal production and trade.5. The Fisheries and Aquaculture Department promotes the management of aquaculture and fishing.6. The Forestry Department promotes the management of resources through forestry.7. Technical Cooperation and Programme Management Department supports member countries in their programs and responds to food- and agriculture-related threats and crises.Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2-B
The Impact of COVID-19 on hunger and undernutrition has made it even more urgentfor the Government of the Philippines to scale up its efforts to tackle undernutrition.Hunger in the Philippines rose sharply following the start of the pandemic. SocialWeather  Stations   (SWS)   surveys   show   that   in   September   2020,   after   seven   months   ofcommunity quarantine, 31% of families reported experiencing hunger in the past 30 days,and 9% were suffering severe hunger—in both cases, the highest levels recorded in morethan 20 years.A national survey conducted from April 28 to May 2 among 1,200 adults found that16.8% of Filipino families experienced “involuntary hunger” or hunger due to lack of food atleast once in the past three months.In November 2020, hunger was at 23.3% (780,000 families) in Metro Manila, 16% (909,000families) in Mindanao, 14.4% (1.6 million families) in Balance Luzon, and 14.3% (674,000families) in the Visayas.PAGPAG is the Tagalog term for leftover food from restaurants scavenged from garbage sitesand dumps. Pagpag food can also be expired frozen meat, fish, or vegetables discarded bysupermarkets and scavenged in garbage trucks where this expired food is collected.Effects of Global Food InsecurityNearly a billion people across the world experience the effects of food insecurity. According to the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), foodsecurity means having, at all times, both physical and economic access to sufficient food tomeet dietary needs for a productive and healthy life. Put more simply, families are able toafford and obtain enough nutritious food. A family is food secure when its members do notlive in hunger or fear of hunger. Both in the United States and in developing nations, foodinsecurity is often linked to poverty. Shifts in the global economy, including rises in globalContemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2-B
food and oil prices, can affect food security throughout the world, with especially severeeffects in low-income countries.Effects of Food Insecurity includes:1. Effects on ChildrenThere are more inclined to hospitalization and at a higher risks of chronic health conditions like anemia and asthma, Food Insecurity in children is also  pertained to the poor physical quality of life and impedes them form fully engaging them in daily school activities, as well as social interaction with their peers.2. Food Insecurity Leads to Hunger Hunger can also result from food insecurity.3. Increases in Food PricesFood insecurity means there is a scarcity of food commodities, making the available food expensive to purchase. These means the prices will go up and will result in related items being more expensive.4. UnemploymentWhen a nation is insecure about their availability of food, the economy will slow down. This means more people will lose their jobs, wages will be lost, and losses in income will be prevalent.5. A Rise in Health-related CostsThe higher the rate of food insecurity,  the higher the risk of developing chronic illness such as heart diseases6. Violent ConflictDespite violence being a cause food insecurity, the lapse is also true. Food insecurity, especially when caused by a rise in food prices, is danger, and results in Challenges to Global Food Security These are but few of the numerous contemporary issues plaguing the world today. Inthis section, we will look into some of the factors that contribute largely to issues pertainingto world hunger and food insecurity. A. Global Water CrisesWater and food crises are intertwined, and if the balance in allocation, conservation,and proper management of land and water resources is not addressed, the risk for waterand food insecurity increases. Distress, poverty, conflicts, and human mobility may furtherensue as indirect outcomes.B. Climate ChangeClimate change will affect all four dimensions of food security: food availability, foodaccessibility, food utilization and food systems stability.  It will  have  an  impact  on humanhealth,  livelihood assets,  food  production and  distribution  channels, as  well  as changingpurchasing power and market flows.C. Land DegradationDesertification   and   land   degradation   are   gradually   reducing   the   capacity   ofecosystems in affected regions to sustain life. The degradation of land reduces biodiversityand   contributes   to   climatic   changes,   while   reducing   land   productivity   and   the   ability   forcommunities to sustain livelihoods.Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2-B
D. Greedy Land DealsCorporations and Governments buying rights to millions of acres of agricultural landin developing countries to secure their own long-term food supplies.The World Health Organization (WHO) defines three main aspects of food security:Food availabilityHaving a sufficient supply of food available on a consistent basis. This food can beeither locally produced or imported from other places. In some cases, communities may beunable to produce their own food locally because of inappropriate agricultural technologiesor practices; lack of natural resources or productive land; lack of irrigation water; climateconstraints;   emergency   situations   like   natural   disasters;   or   health   constraints,   such   asHIV/AIDS, that prevent people from engaging in labor. Communities may be unable to importfood from other places because of issues like lack of foreign exchange, political unrest, orlack of transportation. Food accessHaving sufficient resources to obtain appropriate foods for a nutritious diet (3). Evenwhen a sufficient supply of food exists to feed everyone, food may not always be accessibleto everyone. People need to have sufficient incomes and resources in order to obtain food.There are several factors that can affect a person's economic access to food, including lackof   job   opportunities   that   can   provide   sufficient   income,   or   lack   of   training   or   businessknowledge for success with income generating activities and gender issue.Food utilization, or consuming a nutritious diet This means that people make appropriate use of food, based on knowledge of basicnutrition   and   care,   and   have   access   to   water   and   sanitation   for   preparing   food   andmaintaining proper hygiene. Nutrition education can be an important part of improving foodutilization-making sure people are aware of the variety of foods their bodies need to maintaingood health. In many parts of the world experiencing food insecurity, people may consumesufficient  quantities  of   starchy   staple   foods   like   potatoes,   rice,   maize,   and   cassava,   butinsufficient quantities of protein, oils, dairy, fruits and vegetables that make up a balanceddiet.   Changing   this   may   not   only   require   nutrition   education,   but   also   increasing   foodavailability through improved agricultural practices and resources.III. ConclusionIt concludes, global food security is still important to notice since it is related and giveimpact to every human being in the world. Global food security is not always about takingcare of the food that is ready to be consumed by people but also how this food can begained, how human can get access to gain adequate food, and how every country’s foodsecurity condition is different. There are some aspects that each country needs to improveso that food insecurity will not happen to their country.Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2-B
Global Food Security must be noticed when it includes all human activities in gainingproper  food  since  it is every  human’s right to consume adequate food. This  global  foodsecurity also helps country to determine their own policy and food system in order to getsustainable food consumption, such as how they should improve in agricultural sector andlivestock sector.In order to overcome or develop the conditions of food global food security, there aresome International Organization such as United Nations that takes part in maintaining anddeveloping food security whether with nutrition, food system, and the sustainability of foodsecurity.   some   International   platform   also   take   part   in   avoiding   food   insecurity   such   asCommittee of World Food Security.Food security in its broadest sense is characterized by the needs of every nation. It isa Global response towards the betterment of global health and humanitarian needs. Today,there are still many similar situations, although the problem of has become invisible. Thegovernment is still making efforts to aid those in need, and thanks to research and mediacoverage, the issue of food insecurity is becoming more transparent. 

The concept of food security is dynamic; it has been changing to incorporate new ideas over the years since it was established. In this piece, I will argue that if cultural acceptability is to be added as a tenant of food security then so must sustainability. Cultural acceptability addresses the needs of various ethnicities, for example providing kosher foods for the Jewish population and halal foods for the followers of Islam. Since there is a new focus on the environment with initiatives such as the Kyoto Protocol, this piece concludes further that sustainability should also be an integral part of food security as a concept, if food security is to maintain its legitimacy as a concept.

Changing demographics over the last two hundred years, especially since the advent of the Industrial Revolution, have altered the landscape of the developed world. Prior to the late 1800s, populations were more geographically scattered than today in an agrarian, agricultural setting. Following the technological and industrial advances that have occurred since this time, the majority of the populace moved to an urban environment. The migration to cities has changed the methods of providing sustenance to people. The structure is no longer that of a typical agrarian society . Instead, the food production and distribution systems are dominated by the corporate world which has led to the bulk of the food production system being in the hands of a few select companies.1 It is this "oligarchy" that causes a problem for the concept of food security in the urban environment.

The five main tenets of the concept of food security are: quality; quantity; safety; palatability and cultural acceptability . Until the mid-1990s, food security was only defined by the trio of quality, quantity and safety. However since then, the concept of cultural acceptability has worked its way into the food security nexus. Culturally acceptability refers to the access to food stuffs that are acceptable for a designated population, for instance access to kosher food for the Jewish population.2 These elements encompass the major areas relating to food security, but there is an extra dimension that needs to be incorporated: sustainability. The inclusion of sustainability is necessary due to the changing geography of human society, with the ever-increasing focus on globalisation and corporate integration.

Sustainability, for the purposes of this exploration, will be the inclusion of urban and peri-urban agriculture, that is those outside the city limits but not in rural (i.e. suburban areas), to supplement the prevalent food system in place today. The currently prevalent food system is taken to refer to the corporate-centred, large-scale food production system which predominates in the developed world.

The developed world is usually conceptualised as exempt from issues of food security. Affluence and privilege supposedly indicate that people's "fundamental needs" have been met clothing, shelter, clean water and adequate food. However, this is not the case. For example , the Community Food Security Coalition's North American Urban Agriculture Committee lament s that 'one of the worst paradoxes in human history and one of the consequences of the economic structure of the current food system is hunger in the midst of plenty.3 It is this "hunger" that needs to be explored. For the following discussion, the concept of food security is the one defined by the International Food Policy Research Institute, which now covers the following:

Quantity: energy
Quality: provision of all essential nutrients
Safety: free from toxic factors and contaminants
Palatability: taste , texture and so on
Common Availability: nationally, in local markets, and eventually at the household level
Cultural Acceptability4
Within the context of a First World urban environment, several facets take on increased importance. The concept of quantity, for the most part, is the least pressing issue. Generally, there is an available food supply that meets the necessary caloric intake for the population. Therefore, it is the other factors that come into sharp relief - the concepts of quality and acceptability being two of the most difficult to fulfil.

The United States, for example, does not share the same problems as a famine-stricken Ethiopia of the early 1980s, but it has its own problems regarding nutrition. Meeting the nutritional requirements in an aggregate sense is not an issue, 'in the US, where food insecurity has been a persistent, if less severe problem, the concept of food security replaces the medical model of hunger and malnutrition during the 1980s.5 The issues of safety, quality and cultural acceptability consequently come into question with regard to food security in the First World urban environment.

The practically oligarchic structure of the retail distribution and processing of the food supply to large urban conurbations in the developed world is of acute import ance to the planning and safety aspects of food security. The concentration of responsibility for the majority of production in very few raises concerns regarding the adverse effects that partial failure could hold for a large number of people. The socioeconomic implications for the state in question, both domestic and abroad , would be of unprecedent ed dimensions.

At present, there is an issue of quality, in terms of nutritional value, that is of most pressing concern for the urban environment. Food in the current system, supplying the major retail establishments and food shops, is bound by their structures of economic productivity and profit In accordance with "capitalist motivations" these are put ahead of the inherent quality of the food supplied. On average the distance "from field to plate" in the US is between 1500 and 2500 miles. As a result of extensive transit periods - ranging from one week to two - a significant proportion of the produce is lost to spoilage. This consistent loss to spoilage represents approximately half of the crops gross yield.6 As a consequence, there is a distinct predisposition and inclination among farmers and crop producers- to opt for, not the most palatable or nutritious- produce, but those most resilient to the rigours and harsh conditions- of industrial harvesting and distribution.7 This is-a pressing issue, particularly in the US and Europe, and especially the United Kingdom.

Medical News Today estimates that the volume of malnourished individuals- across the European Union amounts to a shocking fifty million.8 There have been several recent studies done on the topic of the prevalence of malnutrition, especially among the ageing sectors of the population. Up to ten per cent of those suffering from malnutrition are above the age of 65. Even more disturbingly, the proportion of individuals admitted to hospitals and nursing homes classified as- suffering from malnutrition rises to a staggering one third.9 This problem relates, in part, to two distinct obstacles-faced by the general public of First World urban environments. Firstly, the aforementioned problems faced by the currently prevalent structure of the food production industry, especially with regard to the overriding economic pragmatism of producers-, impacts other areas of the food security dynamic. These include the cultural acceptability and common availability of nutrient-rich produce. Secondly, the socio-cultural effects of the capitalist, consumerist drive, which continues to shape the Western economic system.

The underlying economic ramifications of the Western market's capitalL-.t perspective have further implications for the aspects of food quality and quantity.10 The Americanised Western consumer culture L-. a particularly distinct trend, especially when taking into account the development of the "McCulture" that has taken on a life of its own in recent decades. In a modern urban environment, individuals are bombarded with the advertising and branding techniques of large corporations-, such as WalMart, Tesco, Morrisans and Publix:. On every corner, franchises are peddling their high-calorie, nutritionally lacking, "fast foods-". Orr the topic of nutritional responsibility such corporations argue that it is a free choice consumers make to partake in the commodities that they supply. This, however, has been opposed on several fronts, most prominently on that of the addictive nature of their products.

There have been several studies conducted which have found that it is less a question of "gluttony and fecklessness" that contributes to the consumer choice to partake in fast food, and more due to the addictive nature of the food itself: something conspicuously overlooked in the multi-nationals' arguments in support of free choice.11 However, lobbying stifles the initiative of policy makers- to construct policies that would benefit the population as a whole. On the regulatory level, this is something that needs to be taken into consideration. Framed in the traditional paradigm of free choice, this makes for a fairly grim outlook for those concerned about their nutritional and cultural "rights" in terms of food security. This is not to say that individual consumer choices are not a major factor in maintaining their own health and choice of food, but it is a concern for the governing institution s and requires further scrutiny - there is need for further inquiry into the nature of the food on offer and the chains that supply it.

The concept of cultural acceptability as an addition to the food security nexus is a relatively recent phenomenon. The cultural pluralism stemming from globalisation and the "shrinking" of the world gave rise to this previously overlooked factor. In a similar vein, the issue of sustainability needs to work its way into the conception of food security when considering the progression of globalisation and the environmental impacts of the modern lifestyle on the planet. The promotion of sustainable Urban and peri-urban agricultural projects will reduce the impact on the environment, reducing the carbon footprint of the traditional food production system as well as reducing the mileage of the distribution process. The practices of urban agricultural projects also span the full length and breadth of the concept of food security. In addition to the conscious decisions concerning caloric intake that these projects further, they address the variables of nutritional content and palatability. Furthermore, they reduce concerns over toxic contaminants and cater to the cultural proclivities of those who seek to express culinary consciousness through the food they eat.

Currently there are a variety of initiatives in place in large urban environments that help to contribute to the quality of the nutritional intake of those who engage in them. The Community Food Security Coalition has compiled a lL'>ot f activities that would be included under the umbrella heading of Urban Agriculture which includes 'fish farms, farm animals at public housing sites, municipal compost facilities, schoolyard greenhouses , restaurant-supported salad gardens, backyard orchards, rooftop gardens and beehives, window box gardens and much more'.12

In Are We Planning for Sustainable Development?, the authors review the planning agenda of urban agriculture across 105 communities in the US and find that 'many communities are now embracing the concept [ of urban agriculture}, but their planners may only have a superficial understanding of how t o translate it into practice.13 Structural failings of this ldnd need to be highlighted by policymakers as coherent approaches to practice are essential for an integrated approach to food security in the urban environment

The inclusion of sustainability into food security will bring to the fore of policymakers' consciousness the need for such practical applicable methods for the promotion of urban agriculture. The UK has a vibrant tradition of allotments stretching back to the Medieval and Early Modern periods with the first references dating back to the 1500s.14 Allotments are plots of land allocated to individuals either for rent or as part of tied employment for the cultivation of crops for individual, non-commercial use. In such an environment that has a distinct tradition of allotments and gardening developing policies, catering to the strength of the historical tradition is the most advisable approach. This raises other issues that need to be taken into account, such as soil quality. To illustrate, a study conducted at the Walker Road allotment in Newcastle-upon-Tyne found that the proximity of the allotment gardens to a waste plant in the vicinity lead to heavy-metal contamination of the soil that could potentially pose a risk to allotment holders at this location. If a concerted effort is made to include sustainability as a defining feature of food security, issues this will need to be taken into consideration by city planners before expanding or initiating new projects. Such forethought will prevent potentially hazardous problems.

all right

good day everyone so welcome to this

subjective contemporary world subject

so again i am is nobody believe what

your instructor

so we are now in our lesson 15

the second to the last lesson for this

semester so um

in lesson 14 as a recap we have

discussed about

environmental problems and sustainable

development so in that topic we were

able to identify

or understand the origins

and manifestations of environmental

crisis or environmental problems and

um understand or

examine the policies and the programs

of the government around the world that

addresses

the environmental problems

so this time um we will be talking about

food security but before that please

don't forget to like and subscribe our

youtube channel

kuya burns tv all right for this lesson

you are expected to define what glo

global

what is global food security and you

will critique

existing models of global food

security so

before the understanding what is food

security let us define

first what is a food stability

so food stability

food access and food availability

so when we talk about food stability it

is the ability to

obtain food over

time and food access means the

affordability and allocation of food as

well as

the preferences of individuals and

households

and when we talk about food availability

this relates to the supply

of food through production distribution

and exchange

all right so now what is food security

so food security has two

common definitions according to the

united states department of agriculture

and the united nations food and

agriculture

organization so according to food in

agriculture organization

food security exists when all people

at all times have physical and economic

access

to sufficient safe and nutritious food

to meet their dietary needs and food

preferences for an active and a healthy

life so while

um according to

usda food security

is the ready availability

of nutritionally adequate and safe foods

and assured ability to acquire

acceptable foods in socially acceptable

ways and that is without resorting to

emergency food supplies scavenging

stealing or

other coping strategies so

food security is then defined as the

availability

of food and one's access

to it so a household is considered

food secure when its occupants do not

live in hunger or

fear of starvation so

commonly the concept the concept

of food security is defined as including

physical and economic access to food

that

meets people's dietary needs as well as

their food

preferences household household food

security

exists when all members of the family

at all times have access to enough food

for an active and healthy life

so however

um

one challenge to food security

is the hunger

so according to global hunger index

which is a tool that measures and tracks

hunger globally as well as by region and

by country

and the global hunger index is

calculated annually so hunger worldwide

is represented by this

global hunger index with a

global score of 18.2

which is um accordingly just a moderate

in a moderate

level compared to the girl

the global hunger index in 2000 which

scores

28.2 which is very serious or serious

so this hunger very varies

enormously by region across the world

so in this report

now as you can see here so

this part is the africa

south of the sahara the south asia

the report on west asia and north africa

the east and south east asia the latin

america and the caribbean and then the

europe and the central asia

so the dark um the black color

represents the mortality rate

not this part

the gray one represents the prevalence

of

wasting in children and then stunting

the white one represents the stunting in

children

and the green one represents the

undernourished

among the children all right

so in south

africa of the sahara

and africa south of the sahara and south

asia

the hunger is classified as serious

so owing partly to large shares of

people who are undernourished and higher

high rates of child stunting so

moreover africa south of the sahara has

the world's

highest child mortality

rate and while

south asia here

south asia it has the world's

highest highest um

highest highest wasting or

child wasting rate so in contrast

levels in europe and central asia

latin america and the caribbean

east and south asia and

west asia and north africa

are characterized as low or

moderate in hunger so

in 2020 accordingly

pandemic and the resulting economic

downturn

as well as a massive massive outbreak of

desert blockers in the horn of africa

and

other crises are exaberating food

and nutrition

food and nutrition insecurity for

millions of

people as this crisis come

on top of the existing hunger caused by

conflict

climate extremes and economic shocks

so the global hunger and dex scores

presented in 2020 do not yet reflect the

impact of the

overlapping disasters but they point to

hot spots where food insecurity and

under nutrition

are already severe

so as two countries

also the that one is for region

so this time is for country so this

in this report no we see

the continent or the region of

africa so according to 2020

global hunger index three countries

have alarming levels of hunger so what

are those

countries so those are choir timor leste

and madagascar so hunger is also

considered to be alarming in eight

countries

like burundi central african um

republic comoros democratic republic of

congo

somalia south sudan syria and

yemen so the world

is not on track to achieve the second

sustainable development goals what was

that goal

that is zero hunger

so zero hunger for 2030 so at the

current pace uh approximately there were

37 countries will fail

even to reach low hunger as defined by

um global hunger index

by 2030

so additional countries for which

data were insufficient to calculate 20

30 production

projections may also fall short

for this goal which is zero hunker so

furthermore

um these projections do not account for

the impact

of the kovid 19 pandemic

which may worsen hunger and under

nutrition

in the near term and affect the

country's trajectory

trajectories into the

futures into the future

so within their borders countries

show wide disparities in a range of

different indicators of hunger and

along several lines such as

well no location ethnicity

and sex so

what are the things affecting this

food security

so we have first global water crisis

climate change land degradation

greedy land deals so when we talk about

global

crisis um water table reserves

are said to be falling in many countries

including

northern china the u.s and in india

so this is due to the widespread of over

pumping or irrigation and in the decline

in the water supply because of the

degradation of

soil or decertification

so this has transformed

what was once considered a good

uh public good into a private commodity

so the poorest areas of the globe

experience

a disproportionate share of

water-related problems so the problem

is further intensified by the

consumption of virtual

virtual water where in people in advance

use up water for elsewhere in the world

through the consumption of water

intensive

products so the destruction of the water

ecosystem

may also lead to the creation of climate

change

uh or climate refugees people who are

forced to migrate due to lack of access

to water or due to flooding

so the second one is climate change so

climate change

this uh rising of global temperatures

are

beginning to have a ripple effect on

crop

yields forest resources

water supplies and altering the balance

of the nature

land degradation on the other hand is

intensive farming leads to the vicious

cycle of

exhaustion of soil fertility

and the decline of agricultural

yields so greedy land years

so corporations governments buying

rights of

to millions of acres of agricultural led

in some of the developing countries to

secure their own long-term food supplies

so those were some of the things

affecting the food security and the

other one

are population growth increasing cost of

food

and employment in poverty so we all know

that

population growth the food production we

all know that it depends on the crop

lands in the water supply which are

under strain

as human population increase

so pressure unlimited land resources

driven in part of population growth

can mean expansion of kreplan

and this often involves destruction of

vital forest

or over exploitation of irritable

land the household

no being unable to afford sufficient

or quality food because of increasing

cost of these foods also correlates with

the experiences

of the unemployment and poverty

so unemployment you know high

unemployment rate among low

income population make it difficult to

meet the basic household

for the needs so in addition children

with unemployed parents have higher

rates of food insecurity

compared to children with

employed parents so

those are the reasons affecting food

security so now what

are uh what might be the answer to

these food security problems

so are you familiar with the gm food

or what they call the genetically

modified

food so this gm food and food security

might be the answer or might be the

answer to this crisis

so at present little is known on the

consequences and future

safety aspects of this gm

food so the movement of genes from this

gm plants into conventional crops in the

wild

out crossing as well as mixing of crops

derived from conventional seeds with

those grown using

gm crops may have an indirect

effect on food safety and food security

so this risk is real as well shown when

traces of

maize type was only approved for

feed use appeared in may's product for

human consumption in the united states

of america

far from focusing on the needs of the

for poor in the developing countries

so this gm crop development is

driven by the commercial interest of the

us and european companies

so some of the gm crops are major gm

genetically modified crops

currently grown

are soya oil seed rape

cotton and mace which are designed to

sup

to support the food and textile

industries of the developed world

and there is currently little gm

research and development by private

companies and staple

food crops vital to the developing

countries so

another thing is governments

no there are different models of agenda

pushed

by different organizations to address

the

issue of global food security

and one of this is through

sustainability

so remember the second goal of

sustainable

sustainable development of the united

nations

so it has set ending hunger achieving

food security and improved nutrition

and promotion promoting

sustainable agriculture as the second of

its

17 sustainable development goals

for the year 2030.

so on the other hand the world economic

forum

in 2010 also addressed this

issue in food security uh

through the new vision of agriculture or

what they call

nva so this nva

defined by world economic forum partners

in 2009

hold holds that to meet the world's

needs

sustainable agriculture must

simultaneously deliver

food security environmental

sustainability

and economic opportunity so achieving

those goals

requires a transformation of agriculture

sector

leveraging market-based approaches

through

a coordinated effort of different

agricultural sector and transformation

at national

level which include setting the right

direction

through effective leadership strategy

and

investment models and scaling the

transform

formation through finance infrastructure

institution and monitoring

so the world economic forum in

partnership with

nva but were in this

public private partnership were

established

and mobilized over 10

billion dollars that reached smallholder

farmers and the forums initiative were

to launch or establish cooperation and

encourage

exchange of knowledge among farmers

government civil society and private

sector in both

regional and in national level

so indeed food security as

we defined earlier uh according to the

united nations

committee on on world food security

means that

all people at all times have physical

social and economic

access to sufficient safe and nutritious

food that meets their food preferences

and dietary needs

for an active and healthy life so

over the coming decades a changing

climate

low growing global population rising

food prices

environmental stressors will will have

significant yet uncertain impacts on

food security

and many countries are facing the double

burden of hunger

and under nutrition alongside with

overweight and obesity

with one in the three people across the

globe currently suffering from some form

of malnutrition

so with this adaptation strategies and

policies responses to global change

including options for handling water

allocation

land use patterns food trade

post harvest food processing processing

and food prices and safety are urgently

needed so a major challenge now

is on understanding how can we

redesign the food system

be healthy sustainable and

more resilient now to the climate

change and how can we help

meet both the sustainable development

goals so that would be

all for this lesson the global security

for the next topic um we will be

discussing the last

topic that we have which is all about

the global

citizenship and then

in that topic we will try to answer

on what does it mean to be

um a global citizen of the world

right so that would be all 


GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP

Global citizenship is a term used to describe the social, environmental, and economic actions taken by individuals and communities who recognise that every person is a citizen of the world.
It is about how decisions in one part of the planet can affect people living in a different part of it, and about how we all share a common humanity and are of equal worth.

It means being open to engaging positively with other identities and cultures and being able to recognise and challenge stereotypes.

It is also about how we use and share the earth's resources fairly and uphold the human rights of all.

WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO BE A GLOBAL CITIZEN?
A global citizen is someone who is aware of and understands the wider world – and their place in it. They are a citizen of the world. They take an active role in their community and work with others to make our planet more peaceful, sustainable and fairer.

EXAMPLES OF GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP
Global citizenship involves...

Exploring local and global connections and our views, values and assumptions
Exploring issues of social justice locally and globally
Exploring the complexity of global issues and engaging with multiple perspectives
Applying learning to real-world issues and contexts
Opportunities to make informed, reflective action and be heard
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP EDUCATION
For Oxfam, global citizenship is all about encouraging young people to develop the knowledge, skills and values they need to engage with the world. And it's about the belief that we can all make a difference.

Education for global citizenship isn't an additional subject – it's a framework for learning, reaching beyond school to the wider community. It can be promoted in class through the existing curriculum or through new initiatives and activities.

BENEFITS OF GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP
Global citizenship helps young people to:

Build their own understanding of world events.
Think about their values and what's important to them.
Take learning into the real world.
Challenge ignorance and intolerance.
Get involved in their local, national and global communities.
Develop an argument and voice their opinions.
See that they have power to act and influence the world around them.
What's more, global citizenship inspires and informs teachers and parents, too. But above all, it shows young people that they have a voice. The world may be changing fast, but they can make a positive difference – and help build a fairer, safer and more secure world for everyone.

Global citizenship is the idea that one's identity transcends geography or political borders and that responsibilities or rights are derived from membership in a broader class: "humanity". This does not mean that such a person denounces or waives their nationality or other, more local identities, but that such identities are given "second place" to their membership in a global community.[1] Extended, the idea leads to questions about the state of global society in the age of globalization.[2]

In general usage, the term may have much the same meaning as "world citizen" or cosmopolitan, but it also has additional, specialized meanings in differing contexts. Various organizations, such as the World Service Authority, have advocated global citizenship.

Contents
Usage
Edit
Education
Edit
Global Citizenship youth work project in Wales, 2016
In education, the term is most often used to describe a worldview or a set of values toward which education is oriented (see, for example, the priorities of the Global Education First Initiative led by the Secretary-General of the United Nations).[3] The term "global society" is sometimes used to indicate a global studies set of learning objectives for students to prepare them for global citizenship (see, for example, the Global Studies Center at the University of Pittsburgh).[4]

Global citizenship education
Edit
Main article: Global citizenship education
Within the educational system, the concept of global citizenship education (GCED) is beginning to supersede or overarch movements such as multicultural education, peace education, human rights education, Education for Sustainable Development, and international education.[5] Additionally, GCED rapidly incorporates references to the aforementioned movements. The concept of global citizenship has been linked with awards offered for helping humanity.[6] Teachers are being given the responsibility of being social change agents.[7] Audrey Osler, director of the Centre for Citizenship and Human Rights Education, the University of Leeds, affirms that "Education for living together in an interdependent world is not an optional extra, but an essential foundation".[8]

With GCED gaining attention, scholars are investigating the field and developing perspectives. The following are a few of the more common perspectives:

Critical and transformative perspective. Citizenship is defined by being a member with rights and responsibilities. Therefore, GCED must encourage active involvement. GCED can be taught from a critical and transformative perspective, whereby students are thinking, feeling, and doing. In this approach, GCED requires students to be politically critical and personally transformative. Teachers provide social issues in a neutral and grade-appropriate way for students to understand, grapple with, and do something about.[9]
Worldmindedness. Graham Pike and David Selby view GCED as having two strands. Worldmindedness, the first strand, refers to understanding the world as one unified system and a responsibility to view the interests of individual nations with the overall needs of the planet in mind. The second strand, Child-centeredness, is a pedagogical approach that encourages students to explore and discover on their own and addresses each learner as an individual with inimitable beliefs, experiences, and talents.[10]
Holistic Understanding. The Holistic Understanding perspective was founded by Merry Merryfield, focusing on understanding the self in relation to a global community. This perspective follows a curriculum that attends to human values and beliefs, global systems, issues, history, cross-cultural understandings, and the development of analytical and evaluative skills.[7]
Philosophy
Edit
Global citizenship, in some contexts, may refer to a brand of ethics or political philosophy in which it is proposed that the core social, political, economic, and environmental realities of the world today should be addressed at all levels—by individuals, civil society organizations, communities, and nation states—through a global lens. It refers to a broad, culturally and environmentally inclusive worldview that accepts the fundamental interconnectedness of all things. Political, geographic borders become irrelevant and solutions to today's challenges are seen to be beyond the narrow vision of national interests. Proponents of this philosophy often point to Diogenes of Sinope (c. 412 B.C.) as an example, given his reported declaration that "I am a citizen of the world (κοσμοπολίτης, cosmopolites)" in response to a question about his place of origin.[11] A Tamil term, Yadhum oore yaavarum kelir, has the meaning of "the world is one family". The statement is not just about peace and harmony among the societies in the world, but also about a truth that somehow the whole world has to live together like a family.

Psychological studies
Edit
Global pollsters and psychologists have studied individual differences in the sense of global citizenship. Beginning in 2005, the World Values Survey (WVS), administered across almost 100 countries, included the statement, "I see myself as a world citizen". In the WVS Wave 6, conducted from 2010 to 2014, across the globe 29.5% "strongly agreed" and another 41% "agreed" with this statement. However, there were wide national variations, as 71% of citizens of Qatar, 21% of U.S. citizens, 16% of Chinese, and just 11% of Palestinians "strongly agreed". Interpreting these differences is difficult, however, as survey methods varied for different countries, and the connotations of "world citizen" differ in different languages and cultures.[12]

For smaller studies, several multi-item scales have been developed, including Sam McFarland and colleagues' Identification with All Humanity scale (e.g., "How much do you identify with (that is, feel a part of, feel love toward, have concern for) ... all humans everywhere?"),[13] Anna Malsch and Alan Omoto's Psychological Sense of Global Community (e.g., "I feel a sense of connection to people all over the world, even if I don't know them personally"),[14] Gerhard Reese and colleagues' Global Social Identity scale (e.g. "I feel strongly connected to the world community as a whole"),[15] and Stephen Reysen and Katzarska-Miller's global citizenship identification scale (e.g., "I strongly identify with global citizens").[16] These measures are strongly related to one another, but they are not fully identical.[17]

Studies of the psychological roots of global citizenship have found that persons high in global citizenship are also high on the personality traits of openness to experience and agreeableness from the Big Five personality traits and high in empathy and caring. Oppositely, the authoritarian personality, the social dominance orientation, and psychopathy are all associated with less global human identification. Some of these traits are influenced by heredity as well as by early experiences, which, in turn, likely influence individuals' receptiveness to global human identification.[13]

Research has found that those who are high in global human identification are less prejudiced toward many groups, care more about international human rights, worldwide inequality, global poverty and human suffering. They attend more actively to global concerns, value the lives of all human beings more equally, and give more in time and money to international humanitarian causes. They tend to be more politically liberal on both domestic and international issues.[13] They want their countries to do more to alleviate global suffering.[16]

Following a social identity approach, Reysen and Katzarska-Miller tested a model showing the antecedents and outcomes of global citizenship identification (i.e., degree of psychological connection with global citizens).[16] Individuals' normative environment (the cultural environment in which one is embedded contains people, artifacts, cultural patterns that promote viewing the self as a global citizen) and global awareness (perceiving oneself as aware, knowledgeable, and connected to others in the world) predict global citizenship identification. Global citizenship identification then predicts six broad categories of prosocial behaviors and values, including: intergroup empathy, valuing diversity, social justice, environmental sustainability, intergroup helping, and a felt responsibility to act.[18] Subsequent research has examined variables that influence the model such as: participation in a college course with global components,[19] perception of one's global knowledge,[20] college professors' attitudes toward global citizenship,[citation needed] belief in an intentional worlds view of culture,[21] participation in a fan group that promotes the identity,[22] use of global citizen related words when describing one's values, possible self as a global citizen,[23] religiosity and religious orientation,[24] threat to one's nation,[25] interdependent self-construal prime,[26] perception of the university environment,[27] and social media usage.[28]

In 2019, a review of all studies of the psychology of global human identification and citizenship through 2018 was published.[29]

Aspects
Edit
Geography, sovereignty, and citizenship
Edit
At the same time that globalization is reducing the importance of nation-states,[30] the idea of global citizenship may require a redefinition of ties between civic engagement and geography. Face-to-face town hall meetings seem increasingly supplanted by electronic "town halls" not limited by space and time.[citation needed] Absentee ballots opened the way for expatriates to vote while living in another country; the Internet may carry this several steps further. Another interpretation given by several scholars of the changing configurations of citizenship due to globalization is the possibility that citizenship becomes a changed institution; even if situated within territorial boundaries that are national, if the meaning of the national itself has changed, then the meaning of being a citizen of that nation changes.[31]

Human rights
Edit
The lack of a universally recognized world body can put the initiative upon global citizens themselves to create rights and obligations. Rights and obligations as they arose at the formation of nation-states (e.g. the right to vote and obligation to serve in time of war) are being expanded. Thus, new concepts that accord certain "human rights" which arose in the 20th century are increasingly being universalized across nations and governments. This is the result of many factors, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations in 1948, the aftermath of World War II and the Holocaust and growing sentiments towards legitimizing marginalized peoples (e.g., pre-industrialized peoples found in the jungles of Brazil and Borneo). Couple this with growing awareness of our impact on the environment, and there is the rising feeling that citizen rights may extend to include the right to dignity and self-determination. If national citizenship does not foster these new rights, then global citizenship may seem more accessible.

Global citizenship advocates may confer specific rights and obligations of human beings trapped in conflicts, those incarcerated as part of ethnic cleansing, and pre-industrialized tribes newly discovered by scientists living in the depths of dense jungle [32][verification needed]

UN General Assembly
Edit
On 10 December 1948, the UN General Assembly Adopted Resolution 217A (III), also known as "The Universal Declaration of Human Rights".[33]

Article 1 states that "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood."[34]

Article 2 states that "Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinions, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty."[35]

Article 13(2) states that "Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country."[36]

As evidence in today's modern world, events such as the Trial of Saddam Hussein have proven what British jurist A. V. Dicey said in 1885, when he popularized the phrase "rule of law" in 1885.[37] Dicey emphasized three aspects of the rule of law :[38]

No one can be punished or made to suffer except for a breach of law proved in an ordinary court.
No one is above the law and everyone is equal before the law regardless of social, economic, or political status.
The rule of law includes the results of judicial decisions determining the rights of private persons.
US Declaration of Independence
Edit
The opening of the United States Declaration of Independence, written by Thomas Jefferson in 1776, states as follows:

We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed;[39]

"Global citizenship in the United States" was a term used by former U.S. President Barack Obama in 2008 in a speech in Berlin.[40]

Social movements
Edit
World citizen
Edit
"World citizen" redirects here. For other uses, see World citizen (disambiguation).

World Citizen flag by Garry Davis

World Citizen badge
In general, a world citizen is a person who places global citizenship above any nationalistic or local identities and relationships. An early expression of this value is found in Diogenes of Sinope (c. 412 B.C.; mentioned above), a Cynic philosopher in Ancient Greece. Of Diogenes it is said: "Asked where he came from, he answered: 'I am a citizen of the world (kosmopolitês)'".[41] This was a ground-breaking concept because the broadest basis of social identity in Greece at that time was either the individual city-state or the Greeks (Hellenes) as a group. The Tamil poet Kaniyan Poongundran wrote in Purananuru, "To us all towns are one, all men our kin." In later years, political philosopher Thomas Paine would declare, "my country is the world, and my religion is to do good."[42] Today, the increase in worldwide globalization has led to the formation of a "world citizen" social movement under a proposed world government.[43] In a non-political definition, it has been suggested that a world citizen may provide value to society by using knowledge acquired across cultural contexts.[44] Many people also consider themselves world citizens, as they feel at home wherever they may go.

Albert Einstein described himself as a world citizen and supported the idea throughout his life,[45] famously saying "Nationalism is an infantile disease. It is the measles of mankind."[46] World citizenship has been promoted by distinguished people including Garry Davis, who lived for 60 years as a citizen of no nation, only the world. Davis founded the World Service Authority in Washington, DC, which sells World Passports, a fantasy passport to world citizens.[47] In 1956 Hugh J. Schonfield founded the Commonwealth of World Citizens, later known by its Esperanto name "Mondcivitana Respubliko", which also issued a world passport; it declined after the 1980s.

The Baháʼí Faith promotes the concept through its founder's proclamation (in the late 19th century) that "The Earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens."[48] As a term defined by the Baháʼí International Community in a concept paper shared at the 1st session of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development, New York, U.S.A. on 14–25 June 1993.[49] "World citizenship begins with an acceptance of the oneness of the human family and the interconnectedness of the nations of 'the earth, our home.' While it encourages a sane and legitimate patriotism, it also insists upon a wider loyalty, a love of humanity as a whole. It does not, however, imply abandonment of legitimate loyalties, the suppression of cultural diversity, the abolition of national autonomy, nor the imposition of uniformity. Its hallmark is 'unity in diversity.' World citizenship encompasses the principles of social and economic justice, both within and between nations; non-adversarial decision making at all levels of society; equality of the sexes; racial, ethnic, national and religious harmony; and the willingness to sacrifice for the common good. Other facets of world citizenship—including the promotion of human honour and dignity, understanding, amity, co-operation, trustworthiness, compassion and the desire to serve—can be deduced from those already mentioned."[49]

Mundialization
Edit
Philosophically, mundialization (French, mondialisation) is seen as a response to globalization's "dehumanisation through [despatialised] planetarisation" (Teilhard de Chardin quoted in Capdepuy 2011).[50] An early use of mondialisation was to refer to the act of a city or a local authority declaring itself a "world citizen" city, by voting a charter stating its awareness of global problems and its sense of shared responsibility. The concept was promoted by the self-declared World Citizen Garry Davis in 1949, as a logical extension of the idea of individuals declaring themselves world citizens, and promoted by Robert Sarrazac, a former leader of the French Resistance who created the Human Front of World Citizens in 1945.

The first city to be officially mundialised was the small French city of Cahors (only 20,000 in 2006), the capital city of the Département of Lot in central France, on 20 July 1949. Hundreds of cities mundialised themselves over a few years, most of them in France, and then it spread internationally, including to many German cities and to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In less than a year, ten General Councils (the elected councils of the French "Départements"), and hundreds of cities in France covering 3.4 million inhabitants voted mundialisation charters. One of the goals was to elect one delegate per million inhabitants to a People's World Constitutional Convention given the already then historical failure of the United Nations in creating a global institution able to negotiate a final world peace. To date, more than 1,000 cities and towns have declared themselves World cities, including Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, St. Louis, Philadelphia, Toronto, Hiroshima, Tokyo, Nivelles, and Königswinter.[51]

As a social movement, mundialization expresses the solidarity of populations of the globe and aims to establish institutions and supranational laws of a federative structure common to them, while respecting the diversity of cultures and peoples. The movement advocates for a new political organization governing all humanity, involving the transfer of certain parts of national sovereignty to a Federal World Authority, Federal World Government and Federal World Court. Basing its authority on the will of the people, supporters hope it could develop new systems to draw on the highest and best wisdom of all humanity, and solve major planetary problems like hunger, access to water, war, peace-keeping, pollution and energy. The mundialization movement includes the declaration of specified territory – a city, town, or state, for example – as world territory, with responsibilities and rights on a world scale. Currently, the nation-state system and the United Nations offer no way for the people of the world to vote for world officials or participate in governing our world. International treaties or agreements, while binding at the international level, are not automatically enforceable under the laws of every state. Mundialization seeks to address this lack by presenting a way to build, one city at a time, such a system of true World Law based upon the sovereignty of the whole.

Earth Anthem
Edit
Author-politician Shashi Tharoor feels that an Earth Anthem sung by people across the world can inspire planetary consciousness and global citizenship among people.[52]

Criticisms
Edit
Not all interpretations of global citizenship are positive. For example, Bhikhu Chotalal Parekh advocates what he calls globally oriented citizenship, and states, "If global citizenship means being a citizen of the world, it is neither practicable nor desirable."[53] He argues that global citizenship, defined as an actual membership of a type of worldwide government system, is impractical and dislocated from one's immediate community.[53] He also notes that such a world state would inevitably be "remote, bureaucratic, oppressive, and culturally bland."[53] Parekh presents his alternative option with the statement: "Since the conditions of life of our fellow human beings in distant parts of the world should be a matter of deep moral and political concern to us, our citizenship has an inescapable global dimension, and we should aim to become what I might call a globally oriented citizen."[53] Parekh's concept of globally oriented citizenship consists of identifying with and strengthening ties towards one's political regional community (whether in its current state or an improved, revised form), while recognizing and acting upon obligations towards others in the rest of the world.[53]

Michael Byers, a professor in Political Science at the University of British Columbia, questions the assumption that there is one definition of global citizenship, and unpacks aspects of potential definitions. In the introduction to his public lecture, the UBC Internationalization website states, "'Global citizenship' remains undefined. What, if anything, does it really mean? Is global citizenship just the latest buzzword?"[54] Byers notes the existence of stateless persons, whom he remarks ought to be the primary candidates for global citizenship, yet continue to live without access to basic freedoms and citizenship rights.[54] Byers does not oppose the concept of global citizenship, however, he criticizes potential implications of the term depending on one's definition of it, such as ones that provide support for the "ruthlessly capitalist economic system that now dominates the planet."[54] Byers states that global citizenship is a "powerful term"[54] because "people that invoke it do so to provoke and justify action,"[54] and encourages the attendees of his lecture to re-appropriate it in order for its meaning to have a positive purpose, based on idealistic values.[54]

Neither criticism of global citizenship is anything new. Gouverneur Morris, a delegate to the Constitutional Convention (United States), criticized "citizens of the world" while he was on the floor of the convention on 9 August 1787:

As to those philosophical gentlemen, those Citizens of the World as they call themselves, He owned he did not wish to see any of them in our public Councils. He would not trust them. The men who can shake off their attachments to their own Country can never love any other. These attachments are the wholesome prejudices which uphold all Governments, Admit a Frenchman into your Senate, and he will study to increase the commerce of France: an Englishman, and he will feel an equal bias in favor of that of England.

Global citizenship is the umbrella term for social, political, environmental, and economic actions of globally minded individuals and communities on a worldwide scale. The term can refer to the belief that individuals are members of multiple, diverse, local and non-local networks rather than single actors affecting isolated societies. Promoting global citizenship in sustainable development will allow individuals to embrace their social responsibility to act for the benefit of all societies, not just their own.

The concept of global citizenship is embedded in the Sustainable Development Goals though SDG 4: Insuring Inclusive and Quality Education for All and Promote Life Long Learning, which includes global citizenship as one of its targets. By 2030, the international community has agreed to ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including global citizenship. Universities have a responsibility to promote global citizenship by teaching their students that they are members of a large global community and can use their skills and education to contribute to that community.

About the Hub: Ana G. Méndez University (UAGM) is a private non-profit higher education institution founded over seven decades ago in Puerto Rico. UAGM provides quality education and promotes research with a vision of innovation and entrepreneurship. Through its three main campuses (Gurabo, Cupey, and Carolina) and eight off-campus centers located around the island, UAGM offers a variety of academic programs in different modalities and excellent services designed to fulfill the needs and expectations of a diverse student population.  UAGM is the global center of UNAI to promote the exchange of knowledge and information regarding global citizenship. Its activities in this theme solidify its commitment to the development of global citizens by ensuring that its graduates are fully prepared to assume leadership roles and present solutions to humanity's challenges and needs.

10Lesson 13 – GLOBAL CITIZENSHIPMODULE OVERVIEWFrom   the   beginning   of   this   work   text,   the   most   fundamental   ideas   ofglobalization   has   been   used   as   guides   in   order   to   point   out   what   thisphenomenon is all about. By this time, you might have already concocted yourown   definition  of globalization.   Understanding  that   peoples   of   the   world   arechained   together   by   infinite   transactions   and   interconnectivities   in   a   waysuggests   an   implied   responsibility   to   look   out   for   one   another.   The   muchdebated climate change and its fallouts are now a staggering reality. Its effectsexcuses   no   one   –   not   even   people   from   the   so-called   highly   industrializedcountries.   A   few   too   many   debates   have   already  been   done   to   identify   theculprits for this massive destruction. We need not add to the long list of endlessrebuttals for what we are in dire need of are actions and solutions that wouldturn things around. MODULE LEARNING OBJECTIVESAt the end of the lesson, the students will be able to:•Articulate a personal definition of Global Citizenship •Appreciate the ethnical obligations of global citizenship.What is Global Citizenship? It   is   a   way   of   living   that   recognizes   our   world   is   an   increasinglycomplex web of connections and interdependencies. One in whichour   choices   and   actions   may   have   repercussions   for   people   andcommunities locally, nationally or internationally.Is   an   individual   who   is   aware   of   an   firmly   understands   theinterdependence system of societies and their relative position inthat arena. A Global Citizen is someone who:is aware of the wider world and has a sense of their own role as a world citizenrespects and values diversityhas an understanding of how the world worksis outraged by social injusticeparticipates in the community at a range of levels, from the local to the global1STUDY GUIDE FOR MODULE NO. ___FM-AA-CIA-15 Rev. 0  10-July-2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITY
is willing to act to make the world a more equitable and sustainable placetakes responsibility for their actions.To be effective Global Citizens, young people need to be flexible, creative and proactive. They need to be able to solve problems, make decisions, think critically, communicate ideas effectively and work well within teams and groups.These skills and attributes are increasingly recognized as being essential to succeed in other areas of 21st century life too, including many workplaces. These skills and qualities cannot be developed without the use of active learningmethods through which pupils learn by doing and by collaborating with others.Jerome S. Bruner said, “Education must be not only a transmission of culturebut also a provider of alternative views of the world and a strengthener of skillsto implore them.” A global citizen is a person who recognizes being part of an unfolding globalcommunity and that individual conduct and behavior act as the building blocksof   a   community’s   culture.   Nowadays,   forces   of   globalization   such   as   theinternet, politics, and religion guide individuals to identify themselves as globalcitizens living in a world system. With the technology, transportation, and massmedia, our ability to establish linkages and connect with people in distant placesis   enforced   and   magnified.   We   feel   empathy   and   sorrow   for   the   victims   ofhumanitarian catastrophes, civil conflicts, and famine in other countries halfwayacross the world. We are educated on how elevated the problem is with regardsto the oceans of pollutions we have collectively spawned. Deep seated emotionslike anger surface amidst terror attacks as images of defenseless children fill ourtelevision screens. A sense of belongingness that was first attributed to our countrymen begins toextend allowing the entry of non-nationals into our hearts and minds. Why is Global Citizenship education needed?"Education must be not only a transmission of culture but also a provider of alternative views of the world and a strengthener of skills to explore them" Jerome S BrunerWith the interconnected and interdependent nature of our world, the global is not ‘out there’; it is part of our everyday lives, as we are linked to others on every continent:socially and culturally through the media and telecommunications, and through travel and migrationeconomically through tradeenvironmentally through sharing one planetpolitically through international relations and systems of regulation.2FM-AA-CIA-15 Rev. 0  10-July-2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITY
The opportunities our fast-changing ‘globalised’ world offers young people are enormous. But so too are the challenges. Young people are entitled to an education that equips them with the knowledge, skills and values they need in order to embrace the opportunities and challenges they encounter, and to create the kind of world that they want to live in. An education that supports their development as Global Citizens.The active, participatory methods of Education for Global Citizenship and Sustainable Development help young people to learn how decisions made by people in other parts of the world affect our lives, just as our decisions affect thelives of others. Education for Global Citizenship and Sustainable Development also promotes pupil participation in the learning process and in decision-making for the following reasons:Everything done in school sends out messages, so we need to exemplify the values we wish to promote. If we wish to affirm beliefs about the equality of all human beings and the importance of treating everyone fairly and with respect, we need to ensure that learning processes, and relationships between pupils and teachers, reflect and reinforce these values.Research shows that in more democratic schools pupils feel more in control of their learning, and the quality of teaching, learning and behaviour is better.The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child affirms the right of children to have their opinions taken into account on matters that affect them.What does it look like in the classroom?"Education is not a preparation for life, it is life itself." John DeweyEducation for Global Citizenship deals with issues of global interdependence, diversity of identities and cultures, sustainable development, peace & conflict and inequities of power, resources & respect.These issues are addressed in the classroom through a wide and evolving variety of participatory teaching and learning methodologies, including structured discussion and debate, role-play, ranking exercises, and communitiesof enquiry. Such active methods are now established as good practice in education, and are not unique to global citizenship. Curriculum for Excellence has at its core a commitment to improved student participation in order to develop the four capacities: successful learners, confident individuals, responsible citizens and effective contributors.It is crucial to be aware that, far from promoting one set of answers or values or attitudes, education for global citizenship encourages children and young people to explore, develop and express their own values and opinions. (Always requiring too that they listen to and respect other people's points of view.) This is an important step towards children and young people making informed 3FM-AA-CIA-15 Rev. 0  10-July-2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITY
choices as to how they exercise their own rights and their responsibilities to others.It is also vital that teachers at all levels do not approach education for global citizenship with the feeling that they must have all the answers – impossible anyway in such a fast changing world. The role of the teacher is to enable pupilsto find out about their world for themselves and to support them as they learn to assess evidence, negotiate and work with others, solve problems and make informed decisions.. *please refer in the Worktext in the Contemporary WorldLEARNING ACTIVITY 1Name: _______________________________________ Score: _________________Course: ______________________________________ Date: __________________Local-Global IssuesDirections: As part of an interdependent and interconnected global society, one of ourduty is to become aware of the atrocities that is plaguing the world. Global issues are not found beyond our nation’s borders – it is here. For this chapter, students will be asked to draft a proposal on how to solutions global problem like pollution, poverty, and food insecurity within their community. Drafted proposals will be presented in class. PROPOSAL GUIDELINESSample Project Proposal OutlineSection 1: Project InformationThis section intends to provide a high-level picture   of   the   project as well asconvey the most critical project details.Include the following in this section:Name of the Organization: (e.g. KMAP, EDUC. CIRCLE, ETC.)Project Title:Project   Summary:   (What   is   the   project   all   about?   Who   are   the   targetbeneficiaries? Where will it be conducted? other relevant information.)Project Timeframe:Project Contacts (any individuals involved in the project)Section 2: Project SummaryThe goal of this section is to present the reasons for doing this project as well asstating all of the objectives. In this section in particular, it is very important towrite concisely and clearly. Some project professionals even suggest writing theproject summary last.4FM-AA-CIA-15 Rev. 0  10-July-2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITY
Before you begin writing, you should be able to answer the following questions.Why are you doing this project?What will you be doing?How will you be doing it?Who will be doing it?Where will it be done?How long will it take?How much will it cost?Project   Background  This   section   of   the   proposal   requires   a   few   succinctsentences that clarify the problem your proposal is tackling. Here, it is critical toexplain the current state of the problem and why  your audience should careabout solving it. Make sure to include references and statistics in this section.Best practice is to keep this no longer than 1 page.Project Objectives Use this section of the proposal to explicitly list the goalsthat the project is trying to achieve.Section 3: Project MethodologyThe project methodology section of a proposal is where you detail the plan forhow the objectives mentioned in the previous section will be achieved. This isthe first section of the proposal that details the course of action to remedy theproblem and is meant to prove that adequate research has been done for thisdecision. To start, outline the  methodology being used, the population beingaddressed, and establish the process for reaching your objectives.This section is typically broken into three parts:The Project Approach Summary Use a few sentences to describe the overallapproach to the project. This includes how  the team will be organized,  whattools will be used, and how changes will be addressed during execution.Task   Breakdown  and   Time   Estimates  This is  the   section  of  the  proposalwhere a detailed project schedule is presented. To start, make a list of tasks thatare required for the project as well as an estimation of the hours required tocomplete each one. From there, you can take a look at your resource pool andallocate your team accordingly. The purpose of this section is to establish thetime and steps it will take  to   achieve  the  solution, as well as the resourcesinvolved in each section. Here is where you start to see ideas turn into action. Aproject proposal will often include a gantt chart outlining the resources, tasks,and timeline.Project Deliverables This is where you list out all the deliverables you expectto   see   after   the   project   is   closed.   For   example,   this   could   be   products,information, or reports that you plan to deliver to a client. Ensure that eachdeliverable has an associated estimated delivery date.Section 4: Project Risk Management (This section will not be included,since idealistic HAHA)5FM-AA-CIA-15 Rev. 0  10-July-2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITY
This section is dedicated to managing change during project execution. Clientsknow that a proposal rarely covers everything that is required to achieve thegiven project, so change management techniques are required. Establish howyou will monitor project success throughout its entire life cycle to show clientsthat when and if change occurs, the project will not go haywire.This section is broken into two parts:Risk Management Plan A detailed plan of action to minimize the chance of riskor change during the project lifecycle.Risk Register A line-item list of risks and potential counter efforts that will beused to counteract these risks.Section 5: Project CostsThis section is dedicated to estimating the overall cost of the proposed project.This section is broken into three major parts:Project   Budget  This   should   be   a   detailed,   line-item   budget   broken   up   bydifferent   project   categories,   such   as   travel,   salary,   or   supplies.   Ensure   alloverhead or indirect costs are also included in the budget.Budget Narrative  This is a brief list of commentaries on the budget  if anyfurther clarification or justification is needed.Section 6: ConclusionThe conclusion section of a project proposal intends to be a brief review of allthe points already discussed. This is your last chance to win over your audience,so   ensure   that   you   incorporate   the   most   important   evidence   to   receiveapproval.   This   is   also   the   final   moment   to   prove   you   have   adequatelyresearched all solutions and your proposed method is the best for business.*Adopted from https://www.mavenlink.com/resources/project-proposalRubric:Excellent15 pointsGood14-10pointsFair9-5pointsPoor4-0 pointContentThe   proposal   providedvery   clear   informationabout   the   project.Showed   very   clearoutline   and   lacking   nosection. The  proposal  providedclear   informationabout   the   project.Showed   clear   outlineand lacking one to twoportion/ section. The   proposalprovided   vagueinformation   aboutthe   project.Showed   vagueoutline   andlacking   three   tofour   portions/sections.The   proposal   didnot   provide   clearinformation   aboutthe project. Did notshow   clear   outlineand   lacking   fiveportions/ sections.Excellent5 pointsGood4 pointsFair3-2 pointsPoor1 pointPowerpointThe   powerpointpresentation   greatlyThe   powerpointpresentationTried to present ina   good   way   toNo   efforts   orcreativity   is   visible6FM-AA-CIA-15 Rev. 0  10-July-2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITY
Presentation enhanced understandingthe project and showedcreativity   inpresentation.enhancedunderstanding   theproject   and   showedcreativity   inpresentation.enhanceunderstanding  theproject   butsomehow   lacksthe   effort   inpresenting   in   acreative way. in the video.  SUMMARYThroughout human history, we have always organized ourselves into groups and communities that share similar values, ideas, culture, and an overall identity. This, in turn, helped and still helps shape our needs economically, politically, religiously and socially. But in the 21st century, asthe world has less physical and communication barriers, we’ve seen a rise in higher demand for global engagement, resulting in global citizens who crave a sense of belonging to a world community rather than a small, localone. 

 


