INTRODUCTION TO GLOBALIZATION Globalization is a term used to describe how trade and technology have made the world into a more connected and interdependent place. Globalization also captures in its scope the economic and social changes that have come about as a result. It may be pictured as the threads of an immense spider web formed over millennia, with the number and reach of these threads increasing over time. People, money, material goods, ideas, and even disease and devastation have traveled these silken strands, and have done so in greater numbers and with greater speed than ever in the present age.When did globalization begin? The Silk Road, an ancient network of trade routes across China, Central Asia, and the Mediterranean used between 50 B.C.E. and 250 C.E., is perhaps the most wellknown early example of exchanging ideas, products, and customs. As with future globalizing booms, new technologies played a key role in the Silk Road trade. Advances in metallurgy led to the creation of coins; advances in transportation led to the building of roads connecting the major empires of the day; and increased agricultural production meant more food could be trafficked between locales. Along with Chinese silk, Roman glass, and Arabian spices, ideas such as Buddhist beliefs and the secrets of papermaking also spread via these tendrils of trade.Unquestionably, these types of exchanges were accelerated in the Age of Exploration, when European explorers seeking new sea routes to the spices and silks of Asia bumped into the Americas instead. Again, technology played an important role in the maritime trade routes that flourished between old and newly discovered continents. New ship designs and the creation of the magnetic compass were key to the explorers’ successes. Trade and idea exchange now extended to a previously unconnected part of the world, where ships carrying plants, animals, and Spanish silver between the Old World and the New also carried Christian missionaries.The web of globalization continued to spin out through the Age of Revolution, when ideas about liberty, equality, and fraternity spread like fire from America to France to Latin America and beyond. It rode the waves of industrialization, colonization, and war through the eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth centuries, powered by the invention of factories, railways, steamboats, cars, and planes.With the Information Age, globalization went into overdrive. Advances in computer and communications technology launched a new global era and redefined what it meant to be “connected.” Modern communications satellites meant the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo could be watched in the United States for the first time. The World Wide Web and the Internet allowed someone in Germany to read about a breaking news story in Bolivia in real time. Someone wishing to travel from Boston, Massachusetts, to London, England, could do so in hours rather than the week or more it would have taken a hundred years ago. This digital revolution massively impacted economies across the world as well: they became more informationbased and more interdependent. In the modern era, economic success or failure at one focal point of the global web can be felt in every major world economy.The benefits and disadvantages of globalization are the subject of ongoing debate. The downside to globalization can be seen in the increased risk for the transmission of diseases like ebola or severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), or in the kind of environmental harm that scientist Paul R. Furumo has studied in microcosm in palm oil plantations in the tropics. Globalization has of course led to great good, too. Richer nations now can—and do—come to the aid of poorer nations in crisis. Increasing diversity in many countries has meant more opportunity to learn about and celebrate other cultures. The sense that there is a global village, a worldwide “us,” has emerged.Globalization, or globalisation (Commonwealth English; see spelling differences), is the process of interaction and integration among people, companies, and governments worldwide. The term globalization first appeared in the early 20th century (supplanting an earlier French term mondialization), developed its current meaning some time in the second half of the 20th century, and came into popular use in the 1990s to describe the unprecedented international connectivity of the postCold War world. Its origins can be traced back to 18th and 19th centuries due to advances in transportation and communications technology. This increase in global interactions has caused a growth in international trade and the exchange of ideas, beliefs, and culture. Globalization is primarily an economic process of interaction and integration that is associated with social and cultural aspects. However, disputes and international diplomacy are also large parts of the history of globalization, and of modern globalization.Economically, globalization involves goods, services, data, technology, and the economic resources of capital. The expansion of global markets liberalizes the economic activities of the exchange of goods and funds. Removal of crossborder trade barriers has made the formation of global markets more feasible. Advances in transportation, like the steam locomotive, steamship, jet engine, and container ships, and developments in telecommunication infrastructure, like the telegraph, Internet, mobile phones, and smartphones, have been major factors in globalization and have generated further interdependence of economic and cultural activities around the globe.Though many scholars place the origins of globalization in modern times, others trace its history to long before the European Age of Discovery and voyages to the New World, and some even to the third millennium BCE. Largescale globalization began in the 1820s, and in the late 19th century and early 20th century drove a rapid expansion in the connectivity of the world's economies and cultures. The term global city was subsequently popularized by sociologist Saskia Sassen in her work The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo (1991).In 2000, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) identified four basic aspects of globalization: trade and transactions, capital and investment movements, migration and movement of people, and the dissemination of knowledge. Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work organization, economics, sociocultural resources, and the natural environment. Academic literature commonly divides globalization into three major areas: economic globalization, cultural globalization, and political globalization.Etymology and usageThe word globalization was used in the English language as early as the 1930s, but only in the context of education, and the term failed to gain traction. Over the next few decades, the term was occasionally used by other scholars and media, but it was not clearly defined. One of the first usages of the term in the meaning resembling the later, common usage was by French economist François Perroux in his essays from the early 1960s (in his French works he used the term mondialization (literary worldization), also translated as mundialization). Theodore Levitt is often credited with popularizing the term and bringing it into the mainstream business audience in the later in the middle of 1980s.Since its inception, the concept of globalization has inspired competing definitions and interpretations. Its antecedents date back to the great movements of trade and empire across Asia and the Indian Ocean from the 15th century onward.In 1848, Karl Marx noticed the increasing level of national interdependence brought on by capitalism, and predicted the universal character of the modern world society. He states:"The bourgeoisie has through its exploitation of the world market given a cosmopolitan character to production and consumption in every country. To the great chagrin of Reactionists, it has drawn from under the feet of industry the national ground on which it stood. All oldestablished national industries have been destroyed or are daily being destroyed. . . . In place of the old local and national seclusion and selfsufficiency, we have intercourse in every direction, universal interdependence of nations."Sociologists Martin Albrow and Elizabeth King define globalization as "all those processes by which the people of the world are incorporated into a single world society." In The Consequences of Modernity, Anthony Giddens writes: "Globalization can thus be defined as the intensification of worldwide social relations which link distant localities in such a way that local happenings are shaped by events occurring many miles away and vice versa." In 1992, Roland Robertson, professor of sociology at the University of Aberdeen and an early writer in the field, described globalization as "the compression of the world and the intensification of the consciousness of the world as a whole."In Global Transformations, David Held and his cowriters state:Although in its simplistic sense globalization refers to the widening, deepening and speeding up of global interconnection, such a definition begs further elaboration. ... Globalization can be on a continuum with the local, national and regional. At one end of the continuum lie social and economic relations and networks which are organized on a local and/or national basis; at the other end lie social and economic relations and networks which crystallize on the wider scale of regional and global interactions. Globalization can refer to those spatialtemporal processes of change which underpin a transformation in the organization of human affairs by linking together and expanding human activity across regions and continents. Without reference to such expansive spatial connections, there can be no clear or coherent formulation of this term. ... A satisfactory definition of globalization must capture each of these elements: extensity (stretching), intensity, velocity and impact.Held and his cowriters' definition of globalization in that same book as "transformation in the spatial organization of social relations and transactions—assessed in terms of their extensity, intensity, velocity and impact—generating transcontinental or interregional flows" was called "probably the most widelycited definition" in the 2014 DHL Global Connectiveness Index.Swedish journalist Thomas Larsson, in his book The Race to the Top: The Real Story of Globalization, states that globalization:is the process of world shrinkage, of distances getting shorter, things moving closer. It pertains to the increasing ease with which somebody on one side of the world can interact, to mutual benefit, with somebody on the other side of the world.Paul James defines globalization with a more direct and historically contextualized emphasis:Globalization is the extension of social relations across worldspace, defining that worldspace in terms of the historically variable ways that it has been practiced and socially understood through changing worldtime.Manfred Steger, professor of global studies and research leader in the Global Cities Institute at RMIT University, identifies four main empirical dimensions of globalization: economic, political, cultural, and ecological. A fifth dimension—the ideological—cutting across the other four. The ideological dimension, according to Steger, is filled with a range of norms, claims, beliefs, and narratives about the phenomenon itself.James and Steger stated that the concept of globalization "emerged from the intersection of four interrelated sets of 'communities of practice' (Wenger, 1998): academics, journalists, publishers/editors, and librarians.": 424  They note the term was used "in education to describe the global life of the mind"; in international relations to describe the extension of the European Common Market, and in journalism to describe how the "American Negro and his problem are taking on a global significance". They have also argued that four forms of globalization can be distinguished that complement and cut across the solely empirical dimensions. According to James, the oldest dominant form of globalization is embodied globalization, the movement of people. A second form is agencyextended globalization, the circulation of agents of different institutions, organizations, and polities, including imperial agents. Objectextended globalization, a third form, is the movement of commodities and other objects of exchange. He calls the transmission of ideas, images, knowledge, and information across worldspace disembodied globalization, maintaining that it is currently the dominant form of globalization. James holds that this series of distinctions allows for an understanding of how, today, the most embodied forms of globalization such as the movement of refugees and migrants are increasingly restricted, while the most disembodied forms such as the circulation of financial instruments and codes are the most deregulated.The journalist Thomas L. Friedman popularized the term "flat world", arguing that globalized trade, outsourcing, supplychaining, and political forces had permanently changed the world, for better and worse. He asserted that the pace of globalization was quickening and that its impact on business organization and practice would continue to grow.Economist Takis Fotopoulos defined "economic globalization" as the opening and deregulation of commodity, capital, and labor markets that led toward present neoliberal globalization. He used "political globalization" to refer to the emergence of a transnational élite and a phasing out of the nationstate. Meanwhile, he used "cultural globalization" to reference the worldwide homogenization of culture. Other of his usages included "ideological globalization", "technological globalization", and "social globalization".Lechner and Boli (2012) define globalization as more people across large distances becoming connected in more and different ways."Globophobia" is used to refer to the fear of globalization, though it can also mean the fear of balloons.HistoryThere are both distal and proximate causes which can be traced in the historical factors affecting globalization. Largescale globalization began in the 19th century.ArchaicThe 13th century worldsystem, as described by Janet AbuLughodMain article: Archaic globalizationArchaic globalization conventionally refers to a phase in the history of globalization including globalizing events and developments from the time of the earliest civilizations until roughly the 1600s. This term is used to describe the relationships between communities and states and how they were created by the geographical spread of ideas and social norms at both local and regional levels.In this schema, three main prerequisites are posited for globalization to occur. The first is the idea of Eastern Origins, which shows how Western states have adapted and implemented learned principles from the East. Without the spread of traditional ideas from the East, Western globalization would not have emerged the way it did. The interactions of states were not on a global scale and most often were confined to Asia, North Africa, the Middle East, and certain parts of Europe. With early globalization, it was difficult for states to interact with others that were not close. Eventually, technological advances allowed states to learn of others' existence and thus another phase of globalization can occur. The third has to do with interdependency, stability, and regularity. If a state is not dependent on another, then there is no way for either state to be mutually affected by the other. This is one of the driving forces behind global connections and trade; without either, globalization would not have emerged the way it did and states would still be dependent on their own production and resources to work. This is one of the arguments surrounding the idea of early globalization. It is argued that archaic globalization did not function in a similar manner to modern globalization because states were not as interdependent on others as they are today.Also posited is a "multipolar" nature to archaic globalization, which involved the active participation of nonEuropeans. Because it predated the Great Divergence in the nineteenth century, where Western Europe pulled ahead of the rest of the world in terms of industrial production and economic output, archaic globalization was a phenomenon that was driven not only by Europe but also by other economically developed Old World centers such as Gujarat, Bengal, coastal China, and Japan.Portuguese carrack in Nagasaki, 17thcentury Japanese Nanban artThe German historical economist and sociologist Andre Gunder Frank argues that a form of globalization began with the rise of trade links between Sumer and the Indus Valley civilization in the third millennium BCE. This archaic globalization existed during the Hellenistic Age, when commercialized urban centers enveloped the axis of Greek culture that reached from India to Spain, including Alexandria and the other Alexandrine cities. Early on, the geographic position of Greece and the necessity of importing wheat forced the Greeks to engage in maritime trade. Trade in ancient Greece was largely unrestricted: the state controlled only the supply of grain.The Silk Road in the 1st centuryNative New World crops exchanged globally: Maize, tomato, potato, vanilla, rubber, cacao, tobaccoTrade on the Silk Road was a significant factor in the development of civilizations from China, Indian subcontinent, Persia, Europe, and Arabia, opening longdistance political and economic interactions between them. Though silk was certainly the major trade item from China, common goods such as salt and sugar were traded as well; and religions, syncretic philosophies, and various technologies, as well as diseases, also traveled along the Silk Routes. In addition to economic trade, the Silk Road served as a means of carrying out cultural trade among the civilisations along its network. The movement of people, such as refugees, artists, craftsmen, missionaries, robbers, and envoys, resulted in the exchange of religions, art, languages, and new technologies.Early modernMain article: Protoglobalization"Early modern" or "protoglobalization" covers a period of the history of globalization roughly spanning the years between 1600 and 1800. The concept of "protoglobalization" was first introduced by historians A. G. Hopkins and Christopher Bayly. The term describes the phase of increasing trade links and cultural exchange that characterized the period immediately preceding the advent of high "modern globalization" in the late 19th century. This phase of globalization was characterized by the rise of maritime European empires, in the 15th and 17th centuries, first the Portuguese Empire (1415) followed by the Spanish Empire (1492), and later the Dutch and British Empires. In the 17th century, world trade developed further when chartered companies like the British East India Company (founded in 1600) and the Dutch East India Company (founded in 1602, often described as the first multinational corporation in which stock was offered) were established.Lisbon in the 1570s had many Africans.An alternative view from historians Dennis Flynn and Arturo Giraldez, postulated that: globalization began with the first circumnavigation of the globe under the MagellanElcano expedition which preluded the rise of Global Silver Trade.Early modern globalization is distinguished from modern globalization on the basis of expansionism, the method of managing global trade, and the level of information exchange. The period is marked by such trade arrangements as the East India Company, the shift of hegemony to Western Europe, the rise of largerscale conflicts between powerful nations such as the Thirty Years' War, and the rise of newfound commodities—most particularly slave trade. The Triangular Trade made it possible for Europe to take advantage of resources within the Western Hemisphere. The transfer of animal stocks, plant crops, and epidemic diseases associated with Alfred W. Crosby's concept of the Columbian Exchange also played a central role in this process. European, Muslims, Indian, Southeast Asian, and Chinese merchants were all involved in early modern trade and communications, particularly in the Indian Ocean region.The 1843 launch of the Great Britain, the revolutionary ship of Isambard Kingdom BrunelDuring the 19th and early 20th centuries, the United Kingdom was a global superpower.ModernAccording to economic historians Kevin H. O'Rourke, Leandro Prados de la Escosura, and Guillaume Daudin, several factors promoted globalization in the period 1815–1870:The conclusion of the Napoleonic Wars brought in an era of relative peace in Europe.Innovations in transportation technology reduced trade costs substantially.New industrial military technologies increased the power of European states and the United States, and allowed these powers to forcibly open up markets across the world and extend their empires.A gradual move towards greater liberalization in European countries.During the 19th century, globalization approached its form as a direct result of the Industrial Revolution. Industrialization allowed standardized production of household items using economies of scale while rapid population growth created sustained demand for commodities. In the 19th century, steamships reduced the cost of international transportation significantly and railroads made inland transportation cheaper. The transportation revolution occurred some time between 1820 and 1850. More nations embraced international trade. Globalization in this period was decisively shaped by nineteenthcentury imperialism such as in Africa and Asia. The invention of shipping containers in 1956 helped advance the globalization of commerce.After World War II, work by politicians led to the agreements of the Bretton Woods Conference, in which major governments laid down the framework for international monetary policy, commerce, and finance, and the founding of several international institutions intended to facilitate economic growth by lowering trade barriers. Initially, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) led to a series of agreements to remove trade restrictions. GATT's successor was the World Trade Organization (WTO), which provided a framework for negotiating and formalizing trade agreements and a dispute resolution process. Exports nearly doubled from 8.5% of total gross world product in 1970 to 16.2% in 2001. The approach of using global agreements to advance trade stumbled with the failure of the Doha Development Round of trade negotiation. Many countries then shifted to bilateral or smaller multilateral agreements, such as the 2011 South Korea–United States Free Trade Agreement.Since the 1970s, aviation has become increasingly affordable to middle classes in developed countries. Open skies policies and lowcost carriers have helped to bring competition to the market. In the 1990s, the growth of lowcost communication networks cut the cost of communicating between countries. More work can be performed using a computer without regard to location. This included accounting, software development, and engineering design.Student exchange programs became popular after World War II, and are intended to increase the participants' understanding and tolerance of other cultures, as well as improving their language skills and broadening their social horizons. Between 1963 and 2006 the number of students studying in a foreign country increased 9 times.D.H. Comet, the world's first commercial jet airliner, entered service in 1949.Since the 1980s, modern globalization has spread rapidly through the expansion of capitalism and neoliberal ideologies. The implementation of neoliberal policies has allowed for the privatization of public industry, deregulation of laws or policies that interfered with the free flow of the market, as well as cutbacks to governmental social services. These neoliberal policies were introduced to many developing countries in the form of structural adjustment programs (SAPs) that were implemented by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). These programs required that the country receiving monetary aid would open its markets to capitalism, privatize public industry, allow free trade, cut social services like healthcare and education and allow the free movement of giant multinational corporations. These programs allowed the World Bank and the IMF to become global financial market regulators that would promote neoliberalism and the creation of free markets for multinational corporations on a global scale.With a population of 1.4 billion, China is the world's secondlargest economy.In the late 19th and early 20th century, the connectedness of the world's economies and cultures grew very quickly. This slowed down from the 1910s onward due to the World Wars and the Cold War, but picked up again in the 1980s and 1990s. The revolutions of 1989 and subsequent liberalization in many parts of the world resulted in a significant expansion of global interconnectedness. The migration and movement of people can also be highlighted as a prominent feature of the globalization process. In the period between 1965 and 1990, the proportion of the labor force migrating approximately doubled. Most migration occurred between the developing countries and least developed countries (LDCs). As economic integration intensified workers moved to areas with higher wages and most of the developing world oriented toward the international market economy. The collapse of the Soviet Union not only ended the Cold War's division of the world – it also left the United States its sole policeman and an unfettered advocate of free market. It also resulted in the growing prominence of attention focused on the movement of diseases, the proliferation of popular culture and consumer values, the growing prominence of international institutions like the UN, and concerted international action on such issues as the environment and human rights. Other developments as dramatic were the Internet's becoming influential in connecting people across the world; As of June 2012, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world's human population—have used the services of the Internet. Growth of globalization has never been smooth. One influential event was the late 2000s recession, which was associated with lower growth (in areas such as crossborder phone calls and Skype usage) or even temporarily negative growth (in areas such as trade) of global interconnectedness.The China–United States trade war, starting in 2018, negatively affected trade between the two largest national economies. The economic impact of the COVID19 pandemic included a massive decline in tourism and international business travel as many countries temporarily closed borders. The 2021–2022 global supply chain crisis resulted from temporary shutdowns of manufacturing and transportation facilities, and labor shortages. Supply problems incentivized some switches to domestic production. The economic impact of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine included a blockade of Ukrainian ports and international sanctions on Russia, resulting in some decoupling of the Russian economy with global trade, especially with the European Union and other Western countries.Economic globalizationMain article: Economic globalizationSingapore is the top country in the Enabling Trade Index as of 2016.U.S. Trade Balance and Trade Policy (1895–2015)Dividends worth CZK 289 billion were paid to the foreign owners of Czech companies in 2016.Economic globalization is the increasing economic interdependence of national economies across the world through a rapid increase in crossborder movement of goods, services, technology, and capital. Whereas the globalization of business is centered around the diminution of international trade regulations as well as tariffs, taxes, and other impediments that suppresses global trade, economic globalization is the process of increasing economic integration between countries, leading to the emergence of a global marketplace or a single world market. Depending on the paradigm, economic globalization can be viewed as either a positive or a negative phenomenon. Economic globalization comprises: globalization of production; which refers to the obtainment of goods and services from a particular source from locations around the globe to benefit from difference in cost and quality. Likewise, it also comprises globalization of markets; which is defined as the union of different and separate markets into a massive global marketplace. Economic globalization also includes competition, technology, and corporations and industries.Current globalization trends can be largely accounted for by developed economies integrating with less developed economies by means of foreign direct investment, the reduction of trade barriers as well as other economic reforms, and, in many cases, immigration.International standards have made trade in goods and services more efficient. An example of such standard is the intermodal container. Containerization dramatically reduced the costs of transportation, supported the postwar boom in international trade, and was a major element in globalization. International standards are set by the International Organization for Standardization, which is composed of representatives from various national standards organizations.A multinational corporation, or worldwide enterprise, is an organization that owns or controls the production of goods or services in one or more countries other than their home country. It can also be referred to as an international corporation, a transnational corporation, or a stateless corporation.A freetrade area is the region encompassing a trade bloc whose member countries have signed a freetrade agreement (FTA). Such agreements involve cooperation between at least two countries to reduce trade barriers – import quotas and tariffs – and to increase trade of goods and services with each other. If people are also free to move between the countries, in addition to a freetrade agreement, it would also be considered an open border. Arguably the most significant freetrade area in the world is the European Union, a politicoeconomic union of 27 member states that are primarily located in Europe. The EU has developed European Single Market through a standardized system of laws that apply in all member states. EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, services, and capital within the internal market,Trade facilitation looks at how procedures and controls governing the movement of goods across national borders can be improved to reduce associated cost burdens and maximize efficiency while safeguarding legitimate regulatory objectives.Global trade in services is also significant. For example, in India, business process outsourcing has been described as the "primary engine of the country's development over the next few decades, contributing broadly to GDP growth, employment growth, and poverty alleviation".William I. Robinson's theoretical approach to globalization is a critique of Wallerstein's World Systems Theory. He believes that the global capital experienced today is due to a new and distinct form of globalization which began in the 1980s. Robinson argues not only are economic activities expanded across national boundaries but also there is a transnational fragmentation of these activities. One important aspect of Robinson's globalization theory is that production of goods are increasingly global. This means that one pair of shoes can be produced by six countries, each contributing to a part of the production process.Cultural globalizationShakira, a Colombian multilingual singersongwriter, playing outside her home countryMain article: Cultural globalizationCultural globalization refers to the transmission of ideas, meanings, and values around the world in such a way as to extend and intensify social relations. This process is marked by the common consumption of cultures that have been diffused by the Internet, popular culture media, and international travel. This has added to processes of commodity exchange and colonization which have a longer history of carrying cultural meaning around the globe. The circulation of cultures enables individuals to partake in extended social relations that cross national and regional borders. The creation and expansion of such social relations is not merely observed on a material level. Cultural globalization involves the formation of shared norms and knowledge with which people associate their individual and collective cultural identities. It brings increasing interconnectedness among different populations and cultures.Crosscultural communication is a field of study that looks at how people from differing cultural backgrounds communicate, in similar and different ways among themselves, and how they endeavour to communicate across cultures. Intercultural communication is a related field of study.Cultural diffusion is the spread of cultural items—such as ideas, styles, religions, technologies, languages etc. Cultural globalization has increased crosscultural contacts, but may be accompanied by a decrease in the uniqueness of onceisolated communities. For example, sushi is available in Germany as well as Japan, but EuroDisney outdraws the city of Paris, potentially reducing demand for "authentic" French pastry. Globalization's contribution to the alienation of individuals from their traditions may be modest compared to the impact of modernity itself, as alleged by existentialists such as JeanPaul Sartre and Albert Camus. Globalization has expanded recreational opportunities by spreading pop culture, particularly via the Internet and satellite television. The cultural diffusion can create a homogenizing force, where globalisation is seen as synonymous with homogenizing force via connectedness of markets, cultures, politics and the desire for modernizations through imperial countries sphere of influence.Religions were among the earliest cultural elements to globalize, being spread by force, migration, evangelists, imperialists, and traders. Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, and more recently sects such as Mormonism are among those religions which have taken root and influenced endemic cultures in places far from their origins.McDonald's is commonly seen as a symbol of globalization, often called McDonaldization of global society.Globalization has strongly influenced sports. For example, the modern Olympic Games has athletes from more than 200 nations participating in a variety of competitions. The FIFA World Cup is the most widely viewed and followed sporting event in the world, exceeding even the Olympic Games; a ninth of the entire population of the planet watched the 2006 FIFA World Cup Final.The term globalization implies transformation. Cultural practices including traditional music can be lost or turned into a fusion of traditions. Globalization can trigger a state of emergency for the preservation of musical heritage. Archivists may attempt to collect, record, or transcribe repertoires before melodies are assimilated or modified, while local musicians may struggle for authenticity and to preserve local musical traditions. Globalization can lead performers to discard traditional instruments. Fusion genres can become interesting fields of analysis.Music has an important role in economic and cultural development during globalization. Music genres such as jazz and reggae began locally and later became international phenomena. Globalization gave support to the world music phenomenon by allowing music from developing countries to reach broader audiences. Though the term "World Music" was originally intended for ethnicspecific music, globalization is now expanding its scope such that the term often includes hybrid subgenres such as "world fusion", "global fusion", "ethnic fusion", and worldbeat.Use of chili pepper has spread from the Americas to cuisines around the world, including Thailand, Korea, China, and Italy.Bourdieu claimed that the perception of consumption can be seen as selfidentification and the formation of identity. Musically, this translates into each individual having their own musical identity based on likes and tastes. These likes and tastes are greatly influenced by culture, as this is the most basic cause for a person's wants and behavior. The concept of one's own culture is now in a period of change due to globalization. Also, globalization has increased the interdependency of political, personal, cultural, and economic factors.A 2005 UNESCO report showed that cultural exchange is becoming more frequent from Eastern Asia, but that Western countries are still the main exporters of cultural goods. In 2002, China was the third largest exporter of cultural goods, after the UK and US. Between 1994 and 2002, both North America's and the European Union's shares of cultural exports declined while Asia's cultural exports grew to surpass North America. Related factors are the fact that Asia's population and area are several times that of North America. Americanization is related to a period of high political American clout and of significant growth of America's shops, markets and objects being brought into other countries.Some critics of globalization argue that it harms the diversity of cultures. As a dominating country's culture is introduced into a receiving country through globalization, it can become a threat to the diversity of local culture. Some argue that globalization may ultimately lead to Westernization or Americanization of culture, where the dominating cultural concepts of economically and politically powerful Western countries spread and cause harm to local cultures.Globalization is a diverse phenomenon that relates to a multilateral political world and to the increase of cultural objects and markets between countries. The Indian experience particularly reveals the plurality of the impact of cultural globalization.Transculturalism is defined as "seeing oneself in the other". Transcultural is in turn described as "extending through all human cultures" or "involving, encompassing, or combining elements of more than one culture".Political globalizationMain article: Political globalizationThe United Nations headquarters in New York CityPolitical globalization refers to the growth of the worldwide political system, both in size and complexity. That system includes national governments, their governmental and intergovernmental organizations as well as governmentindependent elements of global civil society such as international nongovernmental organizations and social movement organizations. One of the key aspects of the political globalization is the declining importance of the nationstate and the rise of other actors on the political scene. William R. Thompson has defined it as "the expansion of a global political system, and its institutions, in which interregional transactions (including, but certainly not limited to trade) are managed". Political globalization is one of the three main dimensions of globalization commonly found in academic literature, with the two other being economic globalization and cultural globalization.Intergovernmentalism is a term in political science with two meanings. The first refers to a theory of regional integration originally proposed by Stanley Hoffmann; the second treats states and the national government as the primary factors for integration. Multilevel governance is an approach in political science and public administration theory that originated from studies on European integration. Multilevel governance gives expression to the idea that there are many interacting authority structures at work in the emergent global political economy. It illuminates the intimate entanglement between the domestic and international levels of authority.Some people are citizens of multiple nationstates. Multiple citizenship, also called dual citizenship or multiple nationality or dual nationality, is a person's citizenship status, in which a person is concurrently regarded as a citizen of more than one state under the laws of those states.U.S. military presence around the world in 2007. As of 2015, the U.S. still had many bases and troops stationed globally.Increasingly, nongovernmental organizations influence public policy across national boundaries, including humanitarian aid and developmental efforts. Philanthropic organizations with global missions are also coming to the forefront of humanitarian efforts; charities such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Accion International, the Acumen Fund (now Acumen) and the Echoing Green have combined the business model with philanthropy, giving rise to business organizations such as the Global Philanthropy Group and new associations of philanthropists such as the Global Philanthropy Forum. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation projects include a current multibilliondollar commitment to funding immunizations in some of the world's more impoverished but rapidly growing countries. The Hudson Institute estimates total private philanthropic flows to developing countries at US$59 billion in 2010.As a response to globalization, some countries have embraced isolationist policies. For example, the North Korean government makes it very difficult for foreigners to enter the country and strictly monitors their activities when they do. Aid workers are subject to considerable scrutiny and excluded from places and regions the government does not wish them to enter. Citizens cannot freely leave the country.Globalization and genderFrom the documentary Ukraine Is Not a Brothel. Radical group Femen protest against the increase in sex tourism into Ukraine.Globalization has been a gendered process where giant multinational corporations have outsourced jobs to lowwage, low skilled, quota free economies like the ready made garment industry in Bangladesh where poor women make up the majority of labor force. Despite a large proportion of women workers in the garment industry, women are still heavily underemployed compared to men. Most women that are employed in the garment industry come from the countryside of Bangladesh triggering migration of women in search of garment work. It is still unclear as to whether or not access to paid work for women where it did not exist before has empowered them. The answers varied depending on whether it is the employers perspective or the workers and how they view their choices. Women workers did not see the garment industry as economically sustainable for them in the long run due to long hours standing and poor working conditions. Although women workers did show significant autonomy over their personal lives including their ability to negotiate with family, more choice in marriage, and being valued as a wage earner in the family. This did not translate into workers being able to collectively organize themselves in order to negotiate a better deal for themselves at work.Another example of outsourcing in manufacturing includes the maquiladora industry in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico where poor women make up the majority of the labor force. Women in the maquiladora industry have produced high levels of turnover not staying long enough to be trained compared to men. A gendered two tiered system within the maquiladora industry has been created that focuses on training and worker loyalty. Women are seen as being untrainable, placed in unskilled, low wage jobs, while men are seen as more trainable with less turnover rates, and placed in more high skilled technical jobs. The idea of training has become a tool used against women to blame them for their high turnover rates which also benefit the industry keeping women as temporary workers.Other dimensionsScholars also occasionally discuss other, less common dimensions of globalization, such as environmental globalization (the internationally coordinated practices and regulations, often in the form of international treaties, regarding environmental protection) or military globalization (growth in global extent and scope of security relationships). Those dimensions, however, receive much less attention the three described above, as academic literature commonly subdivides globalization into three major areas: economic globalization, cultural globalization and political globalization.Movement of peopleScheduled airline traffic in 2009An essential aspect of globalization is movement of people, and stateboundary limits on that movement have changed across history. The movement of tourists and business people opened up over the last century. As transportation technology improved, travel time and costs decreased dramatically between the 18th and early 20th century. For example, travel across the Atlantic ocean used to take up to 5 weeks in the 18th century, but around the time of the 20th century it took a mere 8 days. Today, modern aviation has made longdistance transportation quick and affordable.Tourism is travel for pleasure. The developments in technology and transportation infrastructure, such as jumbo jets, lowcost airlines, and more accessible airports have made many types of tourism more affordable. At any given moment half a million people are in the air. International tourist arrivals surpassed the milestone of 1 billion tourists globally for the first time in 2012. A visa is a conditional authorization granted by a country to a foreigner, allowing them to enter and temporarily remain within, or to leave that country. Some countries – such as those in the Schengen Area – have agreements with other countries allowing each other's citizens to travel between them without visas (for example, Switzerland is part of a Schengen Agreement allowing easy travel for people from countries within the European Union). The World Tourism Organization announced that the number of tourists who require a visa before traveling was at its lowest level ever in 2015.Immigration is the international movement of people into a destination country of which they are not natives or where they do not possess citizenship in order to settle or reside there, especially as permanent residents or naturalized citizens, or to takeup employment as a migrant worker or temporarily as a foreign worker. According to the International Labour Organization, as of 2014 there were an estimated 232 million international migrants in the world (defined as persons outside their country of origin for 12 months or more) and approximately half of them were estimated to be economically active (i.e. being employed or seeking employment). International movement of labor is often seen as important to economic development. For example, freedom of movement for workers in the European Union means that people can move freely between member states to live, work, study or retire in another country.2010 London Youth Games opening ceremony. About 69% of children born in London in 2015 had at least one parent who was born abroad.Globalization is associated with a dramatic rise in international education. The development of global crosscultural competence in the workforce through adhoc training has deserved increasing attention in recent times. More and more students are seeking higher education in foreign countries and many international students now consider overseas study a steppingstone to permanent residency within a country. The contributions that foreign students make to host nation economies, both culturally and financially has encouraged major players to implement further initiatives to facilitate the arrival and integration of overseas students, including substantial amendments to immigration and visa policies and procedures.A transnational marriage is a marriage between two people from different countries. A variety of special issues arise in marriages between people from different countries, including those related to citizenship and culture, which add complexity and challenges to these kinds of relationships. In an age of increasing globalization, where a growing number of people have ties to networks of people and places across the globe, rather than to a current geographic location, people are increasingly marrying across national boundaries. Transnational marriage is a byproduct of the movement and migration of people.Movement of informationSee also: InternetInternet users by regionRegion	2005	2010	2017	2019	2021Africa	2%	10%	21.8%	27.7%	39.7%Americas	36%	49%	65.9%	75.9%	83.2%Arab States	8%	26%	43.7%	55.2%	70.3%Asia and Pacific	9%	23%	43.9%	48.9%	64.3%Commonwealth ofIndependent States	10%	34%	67.7%	76.3%	83.7%Europe	46%	67%	79.6%	81.7%	89.5%The global digital divide: Computers per 100 people per 2006Before electronic communications, longdistance communications relied on mail. Speed of global communications was limited by the maximum speed of courier services (especially horses and ships) until the mid19th century. The electric telegraph was the first method of instant longdistance communication. For example, before the first transatlantic cable, communications between Europe and the Americas took weeks because ships had to carry mail across the ocean. The first transatlantic cable reduced communication time considerably, allowing a message and a response in the same day. Lasting transatlantic telegraph connections were achieved in the 1865–1866. The first wireless telegraphy transmitters were developed in 1895.The Internet has been instrumental in connecting people across geographical boundaries. For example, Facebook is a social networking service which has more than 1.65 billion monthly active users as of 31 March 2016.Globalization can be spread by Global journalism which provides massive information and relies on the internet to interact, "makes it into an everyday routine to investigate how people and their actions, practices, problems, life conditions, etc. in different parts of the world are interrelated. possible to assume that global threats such as climate change precipitate the further establishment of global journalism."Globalization and diseaseMain article: Globalization and diseaseSee also: Virgin soil epidemic, Wildlife smuggling and zoonoses, Emerging infectious disease, and PandemicIn the current era of globalization, the world is more interdependent than at any other time. Efficient and inexpensive transportation has left few places inaccessible, and increased global trade has brought more and more people into contact with animal diseases that have subsequently jumped species barriers (see zoonosis).Coronavirus disease 2019, abbreviated COVID19, first appeared in Wuhan, China in November 2019. More than 180 countries have reported cases since then. As of April 6, 2020, the U.S. has the most confirmed active cases in the world. More than 3.4 million people from the worstaffected countries entered the U.S. in the first three months since the inception of the COVID19 pandemic. This has caused a detrimental impact on the global economy, particularly for SME's and Microbusinesses with unlimited liability/selfemployed, leaving them vulnerable to financial difficulties, increasing the market share for oligopolistic markets as well as increasing the barriers of entry.MeasurementSee also: List of globalizationrelated indicesOne index of globalization is the KOF Index of Globalization, which measures three important dimensions of globalization: economic, social, and political. Another is the A.T. Kearney / Foreign Policy Magazine Globalization Index.2014 KOF Index of GlobalizationRank	Country1	Ireland2	Belgium3	Netherlands4	Austria5	Singapore6	Denmark7	Sweden8	Portugal9	Hungary10	Finland 	2006 A.T. Kearney / Foreign Policy MagazineGlobalization IndexRank	Country1	Singapore2	Switzerland3	United States4	Ireland5	Denmark6	Canada7	Netherlands8	Australia9	Austria10	SwedenMeasurements of economic globalization typically focus on variables such as trade, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), Gross Domestic Product (GDP), portfolio investment, and income. However, newer indices attempt to measure globalization in more general terms, including variables related to political, social, cultural, and even environmental aspects of globalization.The DHL Global Connectedness Index studies four main types of crossborder flow: trade (in both goods and services), information, people (including tourists, students, and migrants), and capital. It shows that the depth of global integration fell by about onetenth after 2008, but by 2013 had recovered well above its precrash peak. The report also found a shift of economic activity to emerging economies.Support and criticismSee also: Criticisms of globalizationReactions to processes contributing to globalization have varied widely with a history as long as extraterritorial contact and trade. Philosophical differences regarding the costs and benefits of such processes give rise to a broadrange of ideologies and social movements. Proponents of economic growth, expansion and development, in general, view globalizing processes as desirable or necessary to the wellbeing of human society.Antagonists view one or more globalizing processes as detrimental to social wellbeing on a global or local scale; this includes those who focus on social or natural sustainability of longterm and continuous economic expansion, the social structural inequality caused by these processes, and the colonial, imperialistic, or hegemonic ethnocentrism, cultural assimilation and cultural appropriation that underlie such processes.Globalization tends to bring people into contact with foreign people and cultures. Xenophobia is the fear of that which is perceived to be foreign or strange. Xenophobia can manifest itself in many ways involving the relations and perceptions of an ingroup towards an outgroup, including a fear of losing identity, suspicion of its activities, aggression, and desire to eliminate its presence to secure a presumed purity.The European Union–Mercosur free trade agreement, which would form one of the world's largest free trade areas, has been denounced by environmental activists and indigenous rights campaigners.Critiques of globalization generally stem from discussions surrounding the impact of such processes on the planet as well as the human costs. They challenge directly traditional metrics, such as GDP, and look to other measures, such as the Gini coefficient or the Happy Planet Index, and point to a "multitude of interconnected fatal consequences–social disintegration, a breakdown of democracy, more rapid and extensive deterioration of the environment, the spread of new diseases, increasing poverty and alienation" which they claim are the unintended consequences of globalization. Others point out that, while the forces of globalization have led to the spread of westernstyle democracy, this has been accompanied by an increase in interethnic tension and violence as free market economic policies combine with democratic processes of universal suffrage as well as an escalation in militarization to impose democratic principles and as a means to conflict resolution.On 9 August 2019, Pope Francis denounced isolationism and hinted that the Catholic Church will embrace globalization at the October 2019 Amazonia Synod, stating "the whole is greater than the parts. Globalization and unity should not be conceived as a sphere, but as a polyhedron: each people retains its identity in unity with others"Public opinionAs a complex and multifaceted phenomenon, globalization is considered by some as a form of capitalist expansion which entails the integration of local and national economies into a global, unregulated market economy. A 2005 study by Peer Fis and Paul Hirsch found a large increase in articles negative towards globalization in the years prior. In 1998, negative articles outpaced positive articles by two to one. The number of newspaper articles showing negative framing rose from about 10% of the total in 1991 to 55% of the total in 1999. This increase occurred during a period when the total number of articles concerning globalization nearly doubled.A number of international polls have shown that residents of Africa and Asia tend to view globalization more favorably than residents of Europe or North America. In Africa, a Gallup poll found that 70% of the population views globalization favorably. The BBC found that 50% of people believed that economic globalization was proceeding too rapidly, while 35% believed it was proceeding too slowly.In 2004, Philip Gordon stated that "a clear majority of Europeans believe that globalization can enrich their lives, while believing the European Union can help them take advantage of globalization's benefits while shielding them from its negative effects." The main opposition consisted of socialists, environmental groups, and nationalists. Residents of the EU did not appear to feel threatened by globalization in 2004. The EU job market was more stable and workers were less likely to accept wage/benefit cuts. Social spending was much higher than in the US. In a Danish poll in 2007, 76% responded that globalization is a good thing.Fiss, et al., surveyed US opinion in 1993. Their survey showed that, in 1993, more than 40% of respondents were unfamiliar with the concept of globalization. When the survey was repeated in 1998, 89% of the respondents had a polarized view of globalization as being either good or bad. At the same time, discourse on globalization, which began in the financial community before shifting to a heated debate between proponents and disenchanted students and workers. Polarization increased dramatically after the establishment of the WTO in 1995; this event and subsequent protests led to a largescale antiglobalization movement. Initially, college educated workers were likely to support globalization. Less educated workers, who were more likely to compete with immigrants and workers in developing countries, tended to be opponents. The situation changed after the financial crisis of 2007. According to a 1997 poll 58% of college graduates said globalization had been good for the US. By 2008 only 33% thought it was good. Respondents with high school education also became more opposed.According to Takenaka Heizo and Chida Ryokichi, as of 1998 there was a perception in Japan that the economy was "Small and Frail". However, Japan was resourcepoor and used exports to pay for its raw materials. Anxiety over their position caused terms such as internationalization and globalization to enter everyday language. However, Japanese tradition was to be as selfsufficient as possible, particularly in agriculture.Many in developing countries see globalization as a positive force that lifts them out of poverty. Those opposing globalization typically combine environmental concerns with nationalism. Opponents consider governments as agents of neocolonialism that are subservient to multinational corporations. Much of this criticism comes from the middle class; the Brookings Institution suggested this was because the middle class perceived upwardly mobile lowincome groups as threatening to their economic security.EconomicsHu Jintao of China and George W. Bush meet while attending an APEC summit in Santiago de Chile, 2004.The literature analyzing the economics of free trade is extremely rich with extensive work having been done on the theoretical and empirical effects. Though it creates winners and losers, the broad consensus among economists is that free trade is a large and unambiguous net gain for society. In a 2006 survey of 83 American economists, "87.5% agree that the U.S. should eliminate remaining tariffs and other barriers to trade" and "90.1% disagree with the suggestion that the U.S. should restrict employers from outsourcing work to foreign countries."Quoting Harvard economics professor N. Gregory Mankiw, "Few propositions command as much consensus among professional economists as that open world trade increases economic growth and raises living standards." In a survey of leading economists, none disagreed with the notion that "freer trade improves productive efficiency and offers consumers better choices, and in the long run these gains are much larger than any effects on employment." Most economists would agree that although increasing returns to scale might mean that certain industry could settle in a geographical area without any strong economic reason derived from comparative advantage, this is not a reason to argue against free trade because the absolute level of output enjoyed by both "winner" and "loser" will increase with the "winner" gaining more than the "loser" but both gaining more than before in an absolute level.In the book The End of Poverty, Jeffrey Sachs discusses how many factors can affect a country's ability to enter the world market, including government corruption; legal and social disparities based on gender, ethnicity, or caste; diseases such as AIDS and malaria; lack of infrastructure (including transportation, communications, health, and trade); unstable political landscapes; protectionism; and geographic barriers. Jagdish Bhagwati, a former adviser to the U.N. on globalization, holds that, although there are obvious problems with overly rapid development, globalization is a very positive force that lifts countries out of poverty by causing a virtuous economic cycle associated with faster economic growth. However, economic growth does not necessarily mean a reduction in poverty; in fact, the two can coexist. Economic growth is conventionally measured using indicators such as GDP and GNI that do not accurately reflect the growing disparities in wealth. Additionally, Oxfam International argues that poor people are often excluded from globalizationinduced opportunities "by a lack of productive assets, weak infrastructure, poor education and illhealth;" effectively leaving these marginalized groups in a poverty trap. Economist Paul Krugman is another staunch supporter of globalization and free trade with a record of disagreeing with many critics of globalization. He argues that many of them lack a basic understanding of comparative advantage and its importance in today's world.As of 2017, there were 2,754 U.S. dollar billionaires worldwide, with a combined wealth of over US$9.2 trillion.The flow of migrants to advanced economies has been claimed to provide a means through which global wages converge. An IMF study noted a potential for skills to be transferred back to developing countries as wages in those a countries rise. Lastly, the dissemination of knowledge has been an integral aspect of globalization. Technological innovations (or technological transfer) are conjectured to benefit most developing and least developing countries (LDCs), as for example in the adoption of mobile phones.There has been a rapid economic growth in Asia after embracing market orientationbased economic policies that encourage private property rights, free enterprise and competition. In particular, in East Asian developing countries, GDP per head rose at 5.9% a year from 1975 to 2001 (according to 2003 Human Development Report of UNDP). Like this, the British economic journalist Martin Wolf says that incomes of poor developing countries, with more than half the world's population, grew substantially faster than those of the world's richest countries that remained relatively stable in its growth, leading to reduced international inequality and the incidence of poverty.Of the factors influencing the duration of economic growth in both developed and developing countries, income equality has a more beneficial impact than trade openness, sound political institutions, and foreign investment.Certain demographic changes in the developing world after active economic liberalization and international integration resulted in rising general welfare and, hence, reduced inequality. According to Wolf, in the developing world as a whole, life expectancy rose by four months each year after 1970 and infant mortality rate declined from 107 per thousand in 1970 to 58 in 2000 due to improvements in standards of living and health conditions. Also, adult literacy in developing countries rose from 53% in 1970 to 74% in 1998 and much lower illiteracy rate among the young guarantees that rates will continue to fall as time passes. Furthermore, the reduction in fertility rate in the developing world as a whole from 4.1 births per woman in 1980 to 2.8 in 2000 indicates improved education level of women on fertility, and control of fewer children with more parental attention and investment. Consequently, more prosperous and educated parents with fewer children have chosen to withdraw their children from the labor force to give them opportunities to be educated at school improving the issue of child labor. Thus, despite seemingly unequal distribution of income within these developing countries, their economic growth and development have brought about improved standards of living and welfare for the population as a whole.Per capita gross domestic product (GDP) growth among post1980 globalizing countries accelerated from 1.4 percent a year in the 1960s and 2.9 percent a year in the 1970s to 3.5 percent in the 1980s and 5.0 percent in the 1990s. This acceleration in growth seems even more remarkable given that the rich countries saw steady declines in growth from a high of 4.7 percent in the 1960s to 2.2 percent in the 1990s. Also, the nonglobalizing developing countries seem to fare worse than the globalizers, with the former's annual growth rates falling from highs of 3.3 percent during the 1970s to only 1.4 percent during the 1990s. This rapid growth among the globalizers is not simply due to the strong performances of China and India in the 1980s and 1990s—18 out of the 24 globalizers experienced increases in growth, many of them quite substantial.Worlds regions by total wealth (in trillions USD), 2018The globalization of the late 20th and early 21st centuries has led to the resurfacing of the idea that the growth of economic interdependence promotes peace. This idea had been very powerful during the globalization of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and was a central doctrine of classical liberals of that era, such as the young John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946).Some opponents of globalization see the phenomenon as a promotion of corporate interests. They also claim that the increasing autonomy and strength of corporate entities shapes the political policy of countries. They advocate global institutions and policies that they believe better address the moral claims of poor and working classes as well as environmental concerns. Economic arguments by fair trade theorists claim that unrestricted free trade benefits those with more financial leverage (i.e. the rich) at the expense of the poor.Globalization allows corporations to outsource manufacturing and service jobs from high cost locations, creating economic opportunities with the most competitive wages and worker benefits. Critics of globalization say that it disadvantages poorer countries. While it is true that free trade encourages globalization among countries, some countries try to protect their domestic suppliers. The main export of poorer countries is usually agricultural productions. Larger countries often subsidize their farmers (e.g., the EU's Common Agricultural Policy), which lowers the market price for foreign crops.Global democracyMain article: Democratic globalizationDemocratic globalization is a movement towards an institutional system of global democracy that would give world citizens a say in political organizations. This would, in their view, bypass nationstates, corporate oligopolies, ideological nongovernmental organizations (NGO), political cults and mafias. One of its most prolific proponents is the British political thinker David Held. Advocates of democratic globalization argue that economic expansion and development should be the first phase of democratic globalization, which is to be followed by a phase of building global political institutions. Francesco Stipo, Director of the United States Association of the Club of Rome, advocates unifying nations under a world government, suggesting that it "should reflect the political and economic balances of world nations. A world confederation would not supersede the authority of the State governments but rather complement it, as both the States and the world authority would have power within their sphere of competence". Former Canadian Senator Douglas Roche, O.C., viewed globalization as inevitable and advocated creating institutions such as a directly elected United Nations Parliamentary Assembly to exercise oversight over unelected international bodies.Global civicsMain articles: Global civics and MulticulturalismSee also: Global citizenshipGlobal civics suggests that civics can be understood, in a global sense, as a social contract between global citizens in the age of interdependence and interaction. The disseminators of the concept define it as the notion that we have certain rights and responsibilities towards each other by the mere fact of being human on Earth. World citizen has a variety of similar meanings, often referring to a person who disapproves of traditional geopolitical divisions derived from national citizenship. An early incarnation of this sentiment can be found in Socrates, whom Plutarch quoted as saying: "I am not an Athenian, or a Greek, but a citizen of the world." In an increasingly interdependent world, world citizens need a compass to frame their mindsets and create a shared consciousness and sense of global responsibility in world issues such as environmental problems and nuclear proliferation.Baha'iinspired author Meyjes, while favoring the single world community and emergent global consciousness, warns of globalization as a cloak for an expeditious economic, social, and cultural Anglodominance that is insufficiently inclusive to inform the emergence of an optimal world civilization. He proposes a process of "universalization" as an alternative.Cosmopolitanism is the proposal that all human ethnic groups belong to a single community based on a shared morality. A person who adheres to the idea of cosmopolitanism in any of its forms is called a cosmopolitan or cosmopolite. A cosmopolitan community might be based on an inclusive morality, a shared economic relationship, or a political structure that encompasses different nations. The cosmopolitan community is one in which individuals from different places (e.g. nationstates) form relationships based on mutual respect. For instance, Kwame Anthony Appiah suggests the possibility of a cosmopolitan community in which individuals from varying locations (physical, economic, etc.) enter relationships of mutual respect despite their differing beliefs (religious, political, etc.).Canadian philosopher Marshall McLuhan popularized the term Global Village beginning in 1962. His view suggested that globalization would lead to a world where people from all countries will become more integrated and aware of common interests and shared humanity.International cooperationBarack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev after signing the New START treaty in Prague, 2010Military cooperation – Past examples of international cooperation exist. One example is the security cooperation between the United States and the former Soviet Union after the end of the Cold War, which astonished international society. Arms control and disarmament agreements, including the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (see START I, START II, START III, and New START) and the establishment of NATO's Partnership for Peace, the Russia NATO Council, and the G8 Global Partnership against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, constitute concrete initiatives of arms control and denuclearization. The US–Russian cooperation was further strengthened by antiterrorism agreements enacted in the wake of 9/11.Environmental cooperation – One of the biggest successes of environmental cooperation has been the agreement to reduce chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) emissions, as specified in the Montreal Protocol, in order to stop ozone depletion. The most recent debate around nuclear energy and the nonalternative coalburning power plants constitutes one more consensus on what not to do. Thirdly, significant achievements in IC can be observed through development studies.Economic cooperation – One of the biggest challenges in 2019 with globalization is that many believe the progress made in the past decades are now back tracking. The back tracking of globalization has coined the term "Slobalization." Slobalization is a new, slower pattern of globalization.Antiglobalization movementMain article: Antiglobalization movementAntiTTIP demonstration in Hannover, Germany, 2016Antiglobalization, or counterglobalization, consists of a number of criticisms of globalization but, in general, is critical of the globalization of corporate capitalism. The movement is also commonly referred to as the alterglobalization movement, antiglobalist movement, anticorporate globalization movement, or movement against neoliberal globalization. Opponents of globalization argue that power and respect in terms of international trade between the developed and underdeveloped countries of the world are unequally distributed. The diverse subgroups that make up this movement include some of the following: trade unionists, environmentalists, anarchists, land rights and indigenous rights activists, organizations promoting human rights and sustainable development, opponents of privatization, and antisweatshop campaigners.In The Revolt of the Elites and the Betrayal of Democracy, Christopher Lasch analyzes the widening gap between the top and bottom of the social composition in the United States. For him, our epoch is determined by a social phenomenon: the revolt of the elites, in reference to The Revolt of the Masses (1929) by the Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset. According to Lasch, the new elites, i.e. those who are in the top 20% in terms of income, through globalization which allows total mobility of capital, no longer live in the same world as their fellowcitizens. In this, they oppose the old bourgeoisie of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, which was constrained by its spatial stability to a minimum of rooting and civic obligations. Globalization, according to the sociologist, has turned elites into tourists in their own countries. The denationalization of business enterprise tends to produce a class who see themselves as "world citizens, but without accepting ... any of the obligations that citizenship in a polity normally implies". Their ties to an international culture of work, leisure, information – make many of them deeply indifferent to the prospect of national decline. Instead of financing public services and the public treasury, new elites are investing their money in improving their voluntary ghettos: private schools in their residential neighborhoods, private police, garbage collection systems. They have "withdrawn from common life". Composed of those who control the international flows of capital and information, who preside over philanthropic foundations and institutions of higher education, manage the instruments of cultural production and thus fix the terms of public debate. So, the political debate is limited mainly to the dominant classes and political ideologies lose all contact with the concerns of the ordinary citizen. The result of this is that no one has a likely solution to these problems and that there are furious ideological battles on related issues. However, they remain protected from the problems affecting the working classes: the decline of industrial activity, the resulting loss of employment, the decline of the middle class, increasing the number of the poor, the rising crime rate, growing drug trafficking, the urban crisis.D.A. Snow et al. contend that the antiglobalization movement is an example of a new social movement, which uses tactics that are unique and use different resources than previously used before in other social movements.One of the most infamous tactics of the movement is the Battle of Seattle in 1999, where there were protests against the World Trade Organization's Third Ministerial Meeting. All over the world, the movement has held protests outside meetings of institutions such as the WTO, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, the World Economic Forum, and the Group of Eight (G8). Within the Seattle demonstrations the protesters that participated used both creative and violent tactics to gain the attention towards the issue of globalization.Opposition to capital market integrationMain article: Anticapitalist movementsWorld Bank Protester, Jakarta, IndonesiaCapital markets have to do with raising and investing money in various human enterprises. Increasing integration of these financial markets between countries leads to the emergence of a global capital marketplace or a single world market. In the long run, increased movement of capital between countries tends to favor owners of capital more than any other group; in the short run, owners and workers in specific sectors in capitalexporting countries bear much of the burden of adjusting to increased movement of capital.Those opposed to capital market integration on the basis of human rights issues are especially disturbed by the various abuses which they think are perpetuated by global and international institutions that, they say, promote neoliberalism without regard to ethical standards. Common targets include the World Bank (WB), International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) and free trade treaties like the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), the Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI) and the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS). In light of the economic gap between rich and poor countries, movement adherents claim free trade without measures in place to protect the undercapitalized will contribute only to the strengthening the power of industrialized nations (often termed the "North" in opposition to the developing world's "South").Anticorporatism and anticonsumerismMain articles: Anticorporatism and AnticonsumerismCorporatist ideology, which privileges the rights of corporations (artificial or juridical persons) over those of natural persons, is an underlying factor in the recent rapid expansion of global commerce. In recent years, there have been an increasing number of books (Naomi Klein's 2000 No Logo, for example) and films (e.g. The Corporation & Surplus) popularizing an anticorporate ideology to the public.A related contemporary ideology, consumerism, which encourages the personal acquisition of goods and services, also drives globalization. Anticonsumerism is a social movement against equating personal happiness with consumption and the purchase of material possessions. Concern over the treatment of consumers by large corporations has spawned substantial activism, and the incorporation of consumer education into school curricula. Social activists hold materialism is connected to global retail merchandizing and supplier convergence, war, greed, anomie, crime, environmental degradation, and general social malaise and discontent. One variation on this topic is activism by postconsumers, with the strategic emphasis on moving beyond addictive consumerism.Global justice and inequalityGlobal justiceMain article: Global justice movementDifferences in national income equality around the world as measured by the national Gini coefficient, as of 2018The global justice movement is the loose collection of individuals and groups—often referred to as a "movement of movements"—who advocate fair trade rules and perceive current institutions of global economic integration as problems. The movement is often labeled an antiglobalization movement by the mainstream media. Those involved, however, frequently deny that they are antiglobalization, insisting that they support the globalization of communication and people and oppose only the global expansion of corporate power. The movement is based in the idea of social justice, desiring the creation of a society or institution based on the principles of equality and solidarity, the values of human rights, and the dignity of every human being. Social inequality within and between nations, including a growing global digital divide, is a focal point of the movement. Many nongovernmental organizations have now arisen to fight these inequalities that many in Latin America, Africa and Asia face. A few very popular and well known nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) include: War Child, Red Cross, Free The Children and CARE International. They often create partnerships where they work towards improving the lives of those who live in developing countries by building schools, fixing infrastructure, cleaning water supplies, purchasing equipment and supplies for hospitals, and other aid efforts.Countries by total wealth (trillions USD), Credit SuisseSocial inequalityMain articles: Social inequality and International inequalityGlobal share of wealth by wealth group, Credit Suisse, 2017The economies of the world have developed unevenly, historically, such that entire geographical regions were left mired in poverty and disease while others began to reduce poverty and disease on a wholesale basis. From around 1980 through at least 2011, the GDP gap, while still wide, appeared to be closing and, in some more rapidly developing countries, life expectancies began to rise. If we look at the Gini coefficient for world income, since the late 1980s, the gap between some regions has markedly narrowed—between Asia and the advanced economies of the West, for example—but huge gaps remain globally. Overall equality across humanity, considered as individuals, has improved very little. Within the decade between 2003 and 2013, income inequality grew even in traditionally egalitarian countries like Germany, Sweden and Denmark. With a few exceptions—France, Japan, Spain—the top 10 percent of earners in most advanced economies raced ahead, while the bottom 10 percent fell further behind. By 2013, 85 multibillionaires had amassed wealth equivalent to all the wealth owned by the poorest half (3.5 billion) of the world's total population of 7 billion.Critics of globalization argue that globalization results in weak labor unions: the surplus in cheap labor coupled with an evergrowing number of companies in transition weakened labor unions in highcost areas. Unions become less effective and workers their enthusiasm for unions when membership begins to decline. They also cite an increase in the exploitation of child labor: countries with weak protections for children are vulnerable to infestation by rogue companies and criminal gangs who exploit them. Examples include quarrying, salvage, and farm work as well as trafficking, bondage, forced labor, prostitution and pornography.Immigrant rights march for amnesty, Los Angeles, on May Day, 2006Women often participate in the workforce in precarious work, including exportoriented employment. Evidence suggests that while globalization has expanded women's access to employment, the longterm goal of transforming gender inequalities remains unmet and appears unattainable without regulation of capital and a reorientation and expansion of the state's role in funding public goods and providing a social safety net. Furthermore, the intersectionality of gender, race, class, and more remain overlooked when assessing the impact of globalization.In 2016, a study published by the IMF posited that neoliberalism, the ideological backbone of contemporary globalized capitalism, has been "oversold", with the benefits of neoliberal policies being "fairly difficult to establish when looking at a broad group of countries" and the costs, most significantly higher income inequality within nations, "hurt the level and sustainability of growth."Antiglobal governanceMain article: Global governanceBeginning in the 1930s, opposition arose to the idea of a world government, as advocated by organizations such as the World Federalist Movement (WFM). Those who oppose global governance typically do so on objections that the idea is unfeasible, inevitably oppressive, or simply unnecessary. In general, these opponents are wary of the concentration of power or wealth that such governance might represent. Such reasoning dates back to the founding of the League of Nations and, later, the United Nations.Environmentalist oppositionDeforestation of the Madagascar Highland Plateau has led to extensive siltation and unstable flows of western rivers.a shows carbon footprint (CF) hotspots of foreign final consumption in China. b–d show carbon footprint hotspots of the consumption of the United States, Hong Kong, and Japan, respectively. Among all foreign regions, the United States, Hong Kong, and Japan have the largest CFs in China, contributing ~23.0%, 10.8%, and 9.0%, respectively, to the total foreign CF in China in 2012.Main article: EnvironmentalismSee also: Climate change and DeforestationEnvironmentalism is a broad philosophy, ideology and social movement regarding concerns for environmental conservation and improvement of the health of the environment. Environmentalist concerns with globalization include issues such as global warming, global water supply and water crises, inequity in energy consumption and energy conservation, transnational air pollution and pollution of the world ocean, overpopulation, world habitat sustainability, deforestation, biodiversity loss and species extinction.One critique of globalization is that natural resources of the poor have been systematically taken over by the rich and the pollution promulgated by the rich is systematically dumped on the poor. Some argue that Northern corporations are increasingly exploiting resources of less wealthy countries for their global activities while it is the South that is disproportionately bearing the environmental burden of the globalized economy. Globalization is thus leading to a type of" environmental apartheid".Helena NorbergHodge, the director and founder of Local Futures/International Society for Ecology and Culture, criticizes globalization in many ways. In her book Ancient Futures, NorbergHodge claims that "centuries of ecological balance and social harmony are under threat from the pressures of development and globalization." She also criticizes the standardization and rationalization of globalization, as it does not always yield the expected growth outcomes. Although globalization takes similar steps in most countries, scholars such as Hodge claim that it might not be effective to certain countries and that globalization has actually moved some countries backward instead of developing them.A related area of concern is the pollution haven hypothesis, which posits that, when large industrialized nations seek to set up factories or offices abroad, they will often look for the cheapest option in terms of resources and labor that offers the land and material access they require (see Race to the bottom). This often comes at the cost of environmentally sound practices. Developing countries with cheap resources and labor tend to have less stringent environmental regulations, and conversely, nations with stricter environmental regulations become more expensive for companies as a result of the costs associated with meeting these standards. Thus, companies that choose to physically invest in foreign countries tend to (re)locate to the countries with the lowest environmental standards or weakest enforcement.The European Union–Mercosur Free Trade Agreement, which would form one of the world's largest free trade areas, has been denounced by environmental activists and indigenous rights campaigners. The fear is that the deal could lead to more deforestation of the Amazon rainforest as it expands market access to Brazilian beef.Food securityMain article: Food securityGlobalization is associated with a more efficient system of food production. This is because crops are grown in countries with optimum growing conditions. This improvement causes an increase in the world's food supply which encourages improved food security. The political movement 'BREXIT' was considered a step back in globalisation; it has greatly disrupted food chains within the UK, as they import 26% of food produce from the EU.NorwayNorway's limited crop range advocates globalization of food production and availability. The northernmost country in Europe requires trade with other countries to ensure population food demands are met. The degree of selfsufficiency in food production is around 50% in Norway.See alsoicon	Business portal	World portalCivilizing missionCosmopolitanismDeglobalizationEnvironmental racismEurasianismFranchisingFree tradeGlobal civicsGlobal commonsGlobal mobilityGlobalismGlobal public goodsList of bilateral freetrade agreementsList of globalizationrelated indicesList of multilateral freetrade agreementsMiddle East and globalizationNeorealism (international relations)North–South divideOutline of globalizationPostdevelopment theoryTechnocapitalismThe NoNonsense Guide to GlobalizationTransnational cinemaTransnational citizenshipTriadizationUnited Nations Millennium DeclarationVermeer's HatWorld EnglishesGlobal regionalizationReferences James, Paul; Steger, Manfred B. (2014). "A Genealogy of globalization: The career of a concept". Globalizations. 11 (4): 417–34. doi:10.1080/14747731.2014.951186. S2CID 18739651. Albrow, Martin; King, Elizabeth (1990). Globalization, Knowledge and Society. London: Sage. ISBN 0803983239. OCLC 22593547. Read "Following the Money: U.S. Finance in the World Economy" at NAP.edu. 1995. doi:10.17226/2134. ISBN 9780309048835. "Imagining the Internet". History of Information Technologies. Elon University School of Communications. Archived from the original on 23 March 2009. Retrieved 17 August 2009. Stever, H. Guyford (1972). "Science, Systems, and Society". Journal of Cybernetics. 2 (3): 1–3. doi:10.1080/01969727208542909. Wolf, Martin (September 2014). "Shaping Globalization" (PDF). Finance & Development. International Monetary Fund. 51 (3): 22–25. Archived (PDF) from the original on 22 September 2018. Retrieved 10 August 2015. Frank, Andre Gunder. (1998). ReOrient: Global economy in the Asian age. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 9780520214743 H., O'Rourke, Kevin; G., Williamson, Jeffrey (1 April 2002). "When did globalisation begin?". European Review of Economic History. 6 (1): 23–50. doi:10.1017/S1361491602000023. ISSN 13614916. S2CID 15767303. Sassen, Saskia  The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo. Archived 16 March 2015 at the Wayback Machine (1991)  Princeton University Press. ISBN 0691070636 "Globalization: Threat or Opportunity?". International Monetary Fund. 12 April 2000. Archived from the original on 18 August 2017. Retrieved 28 November 2019. Babones, Salvatore (2008). "Studying Globalization: Methodological Issues". In Ritzer, George (ed.). The Blackwell Companion to Globalization. Malden: John Wiley & Sons. p. 146. ISBN 9780470766422. OCLC 232611725. Hopkins, Antony G., ed. (2002). Globalization in World History. New York: Norton. pp. 4–8. ISBN 0393979423. OCLC 50028410. Bakari, Mohamed ElKamel (2013). "Globalization and Sustainable Development: False Twins?". New Global Studies. 7 (3): 23–56. doi:10.1515/ngs2013021. ISSN 19400004. S2CID 154786395. Karl Marx; Friedrich Engels (2017). "Manifesto of the Communist Party". The Communist Manifesto (PDF). Pluto Press. pp. 47–103. doi:10.2307/j.ctt1k85dmc.4. ISBN 9781786800251. JSTOR j.ctt1k85dmc. S2CID 53056560. Giddens, Anthony (1990). The Consequences of Modernity. Cambridge: Polity Press. p. 64. ISBN 0745607934. OCLC 22305142. Robertson, Roland (1992). Globalization: Social Theory and Global Culture (Reprint. ed.). London: Sage. ISBN 9780803981874. OCLC 28634687. Held, David; Goldblatt, David; McGrew, Anthony; Perraton, Jonathan (1999). Global Transformations Cambridge: Polity Press. ISBN 9780745614984 "DHL Global Connectedness Index 2014" (PDF). DHL. 11 March 2014. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 February 2015. Retrieved 31 March 2015. Larsson, Thomas. (2001). The Race to the Top: The Real Story of Globalization Washington, DC: Cato Institute. p. 9. ISBN 9781930865150 James, Paul (2005). "Arguing Globalizations: Propositions Towards an Investigation of Global Formation". Globalizations. 2 (2): 193–209. doi:10.1080/14747730500202206. S2CID 146553776. Steger, Manfred (2009). Globalization: A Very Short Introduction. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 11. ISBN 9780199552269. Manfred B. Steger; Paul James (2013). "Levels of Subjective Globalization: Ideologies, Imaginaries, Ontologies". Perspectives on Global Development and Technology. 12 (1–2). James, Paul (2014). "Faces of Globalization and the Borders of States: From Asylum Seekers to Citizens". Citizenship Studies. 18 (2): 208–23. doi:10.1080/13621025.2014.886440. S2CID 144816686. Friedman, Thomas L. "The Dell Theory of Conflict Prevention". Emerging: A Reader. Ed. Barclay Barrios. Boston: Bedford, St. Martins, 2008. 49 Fotopoulos, Takis. (2001). "Globalization, the reformist Left and the AntiGlobalization 'Movement.'" Democracy & Nature: The International Journal of Inclusive Democracy, 7:(2) (July 2001). Archived 26 April 2009 at the Wayback Machine Lechner, Frank J.; Boli, John, eds. (2012). The Globalization Reader (4th ed.). Chichester: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 9780470655634. OCLC 723530747. Henwood, Doug (13 November 2003). "Beyond Globophobia". The Nation. ISSN 00278378. Archived from the original on 29 October 2014. Clark, Ross (20 March 2004). "Globophobia". The Spectator. Archived from the original on 22 December 2014. Retrieved 29 October 2014. Ritzer, George, ed. (2008). The Blackwell Companion to Globalization. Malden: John Wiley & Sons. pp. 16–. ISBN 9780470766422. OCLC 232611725. O'Rourke, Kevin H.; Williamson, Jeffrey G. (2002). "When Did Globalization Begin?". European Review of Economic History. 6 (1): 23–50. doi:10.1017/S1361491602000023. S2CID 15767303. Martell, Luke (2010). The Sociology of Globalization. Policy Press. Kochler, Hans (2000). Globality versus Democracy: The Changing Nature of International Relations in the Era of Globalization. Vienna: International Progress Organization. p. 35. Jerry Bentley, Old World Encounters: CrossCultural Contacts and Exchanges in PreModern Times (New York: Oxford University Press, 1993), 32. Jerry Bentley, Old World Encounters: CrossCultural Contacts and Exchanges in PreModern Times (New York: Oxford University Press, 1993), 33. "The Legacy of the Silk Road". Yale Global. 25 January 2013. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 31 March 2015. Hopkins, A.G., ed., 2003. Globalization in World History. New York City: Norton. ISBN 0393979423 pp. 4–5, 7 Chaudhuri, K.N. (1965\1999). The English East India Company: The Study of an Early Jointstock Company 1600–1640 (Vol. 4). London: Routledge/Thoemmes Press. China and the Birth of Globalization in the 16th Century, by Dennis O. Flynn and Arturo Giráldez Trade and empire (Chapter 4) – The Cambridge Economic History of Modern Europe. pp. 100–01. doi:10.1017/CBO9780511794834.006. ISBN 9780521882026. Archived from the original on 3 March 2018. Retrieved 2 March 2018. {{cite book}}: |website= ignored (help) Levinson, Marc. "Sample Chapter for Levinson, M.: The Box: How the Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger". The Box: How the Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger. Princeton University Press. Archived from the original on 22 January 2013. Retrieved 17 February 2013. Gittins, Ross (12 June 2006). "How the invention of a box changed our world – Business – smh.com.au". The Sydney Morning Herald. Archived from the original on 14 November 2015. Retrieved 17 February 2013. "World Exports as Percentage of Gross World Product". Global Policy Forum. Archived from the original on 12 July 2008. Retrieved 11 November 2009. Varghese, N.V. 2008, 'Globalization of higher education and crossborder student mobility', International Institute for Educational Planning, UNESCO Lourdes, Benería; Gunseli, Berik; Maria S., Floro (2016). Gender, Development, and Globalization: Economics as if all people mattered. New York: Routledge. p. 95. ISBN 9780415537483. Klein, Naomi (2008). The Shock Doctrine. Canada: Vintage. p. 68. Lourdes, Benería; Deere, Carmen Diana; Kabeer, Naila (8 August 2012). "Gender and International Migration: Globalization, Development and Governance". Feminist Economics. 18 (2): 1–33. doi:10.1080/13545701.2012.688998. S2CID 144565818. Rai. "The History of International Development: Concepts and Contexts". Women, Gender and Development Reader: 15. Wolf, Martin (2001). "Will the nationstate survive globalization?". Foreign Affairs. 80 (1): 178–190. doi:10.2307/20050051. JSTOR 20050051. Archived from the original on 11 September 2017. Retrieved 12 September 2017. Ritzer, George (2011). Globalization: The Essentials. NY: John Wiley & Sons. Saggi, Kamal (2002). "Trade, Foreign Direct Investment, and International Technology Transfer: A Survey". World Bank Research Observer. 17 (2): 191–235. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.17.7732. doi:10.1093/wbro/17.2.191. S2CID 16620922. Hunt, Michael H. (2004). The World Transformed 1945 to present. p. 399. "The Open Market Internet Index". Treese.org. 11 November 1995. Archived from the original on 1 June 2013. Retrieved 15 June 2013. "World Stats". Internet World Stats. Miniwatts Marketing Group. 30 June 2012. Archived from the original on 23 June 2011. Retrieved 4 January 2015. "Signs of life". The Economist. 15 November 2014. Archived from the original on 2 September 2017. Retrieved 29 August 2017. Faiola, Anthony. (2009). "A Global Retreat As Economies Dry Up." The Washington Post, 5 March 2009. Archived 4 December 2010 at the Wayback Machine Allison Morrow (24 May 2022). "Globalization is coming undone, and that's a huge red flag". CNN. "Czech foreign owned companies take second biggest dividend yield in 2017:report". Radio Prague. 7 March 2018. Joshi, Rakesh Mohan, (2009) International Business, Oxford University Press, New Delhi and New York ISBN 0195689097. Riley, T: "Year 12 Economics", p. 9. Tim Riley Publications, 2005 Hill, Charles W.L. (2014). International business: competing in the global marketplace (10th ed.). New York: McGrawHill. ISBN 9780078112775. OCLC 864808614. "What Is Globalization?". PIIE. 29 October 2018. Retrieved 25 May 2020. Pitelis, Christos; Roger Sugden (2000). The nature of the transnational firm. Routledge. p. H72. ISBN 9780415167871. "Multinational Corporations". Archived from the original on 14 April 2018. Retrieved 23 December 2016. Roy D. Voorhees, Emerson L. Seim, and John I. Coppett, "Global Logistics and Stateless Corporations," Transportation Practitioners Journal 59, 2 (Winter 1992): 144–51. O'Sullivan, Arthur; Sheffrin, Steven M. (2003). Economics: Principles in Action. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall. p. 453. ISBN 9780130630858. European Commission. "The EU Single Market: Fewer barriers, more opportunities". Europa web portal. Archived from the original on 1 October 2007. Retrieved 27 September 2007."Activities of the European Union: Internal Market". Europa web portal. Archived from the original on 25 June 2007. Retrieved 29 June 2007. Kuruvilla, Sarosh; Ranganathan, Aruna (October 2008). "Economic Development Strategies And Macro And MicroLevel Human Resource Policies: The Case Of India's "Outsourcing" Industry". Industrial & Labor Relations Review. 62 (1): 39–72. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.662.425. doi:10.1177/001979390806200103. S2CID 12104735. "Outsourcing to Africa: The world economy calls | The Economist". 16 April 2011. Archived from the original on 11 May 2011. Retrieved 16 April 2011. Robinson, William I. "Globalization and the sociology of Immanuel Wallerstein: A critical appraisal". International Sociology. 1–23. James, Paul (2006). Globalism, Nationalism, Tribalism. London: Sage Publications. Archived from the original on 29 April 2020. Retrieved 20 December 2017. Manfred B. Steger and Paul James, 'Ideologies of Globalism', in Paul James and Manfred B. Steger, eds, Globalization and Culture: Vol. 4, Ideologies of Globalism Archived 8 November 2017 at the Wayback Machine, Sage Publications, London, 2010. Inda, Jonathan; Rosaldo, Renato (2002). "Introduction: A World in Motion". The Anthropology of Globalization. WileyBlackwell. Cowen, Tyler; Barber, Benjamin (May–June 2003). "Globalization and Culture" (PDF). Cato Policy Report. Archived from the original (PDF) on 19 November 2012. Retrieved 15 March 2017. Nadeem, S (2009) Macaulay's (Cyber) Children: The Cultural Politics of Outsourcing in India Archived 20 June 2010 at the Wayback Machine. Cultural Sociology Hacker, Violaine (2011). "Budovanie mediálneho priemyslu a podpora hodnotovo orientovanej spoločnosti v globalizácii: od chichotského výberu k pragmatickým výhodám EU občanov" . Politické vedy. 14 (2): 64–74. ISSN 13352741. Fangjun, Cao (1 September 2009). "Modernization Theory and China's Road to Modernization". Chinese Studies in History. 43 (1): 7–16. doi:10.2753/CSH00094633430101. ISSN 00094633. S2CID 145504998. McAlister, Elizabeth (September 2005). "Globalization and the Religious Production of Space". Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion. 44 (3): 249–255. doi:10.1111/j.14685906.2005.00283.x. "Globalization and Sport: A Review by Susan Froetschel". Archived from the original on 23 December 2016. "Overview of Olympic Games". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 30 April 2015. Retrieved 4 June 2008. "2006 FIFA World Cup broadcast wider, longer and farther than ever before". FIFA.com. Fédération Internationale de Football Association. 6 February 2007. Archived from the original on 20 January 2012. Retrieved 11 October 2009. Dunmore, Tom (2011). Historical Dictionary of Soccer. Scarecrow Press. p. 235. ISBN 9780810871885. The World Cup is now the mostwatched sporting event in the world on television, above even the Olympic Games. Dobson, Stephen; Goddard, John (10 February 2011). The Economics of Football. Cambridge University Press. pp. 407–. ISBN 9781139496308. The World Cup is the most widely viewed sporting event in the world: the estimated cumulative television audience for the 2006 World Cup in Germany was 26.2 billion, an average of 409 million viewers per match. Wong, Glenn M. (8 March 2012). The Comprehensive Guide to Careers in Sports. Jones & Bartlett Publishers. pp. 144–. ISBN 9781449602031. The World Cup is the mostwatched sporting event in the world. In 2006, more than 30 billion viewers in 214 countries watched the World Cup on television, and more than 3.3 million spectators attended the 64 matches of the tournament. Clayton, Thomas (August 2004). ""Competing Conceptions of Globalization" Revisited: Relocating the Tension between World‐Systems Analysis and Globalization Analysis". Comparative Education Review. 48 (3): 274–294. doi:10.1086/421180. ISSN 00104086. S2CID 56099753. Throsby, David (2002). "The music industry in the new millennium: Global and Local Perspectives." Paper prepared for The Global Alliance for Cultural Diversity Division of Arts and Cultural Enterprise UNESCO, Paris. "Ethnic fusion Music". Allmusic. Archived from the original on 29 April 2012. Retrieved 20 February 2020. "Worldbeat". Allmusic. Archived from the original on 3 May 2012. Retrieved 20 February 2020. "World Fusion Music". worldmusic.nationalgeographic.com. Archived from the original on 14 March 2012. "Chili: Small Fruit Sets Global Palettes on Fire" Archived 31 December 2016 at the Wayback Machine, History of Globalization, YaleGlobal Online. Beard, David and Keneth Gloag. 2005. Musicology: The Key Concepts. London and New York: Routledge. "International Flows of Selected Goods and Services" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 July 2010. Retrieved 31 July 2010. "Why do we need religion in a globalized world?". Aleteia — Catholic Spirituality, Lifestyle, World News, and Culture. 11 April 2018. Archived from the original on 12 April 2018. Retrieved 12 April 2018. Ghosh, Biswajit (June 2011). "Cultural Changes and Challenges in the Era of Globalization: The Case of India". Journal of Developing Societies. 27 (2): 153–175. doi:10.1177/0169796X1102700203. ISSN 0169796X. S2CID 145494090. Cuccioletta, Donald. Multiculturalism or Transculturalism: Towards a Cosmopolitan Citizenship., London Journal of Canadian Studies 2001/2002 Vol. 17, Plattsburgh State University of New York, Interdisciplinary Research Group on the Americas transcultural Archived 5 August 2018 at the Wayback Machine, thefreedictionary.com transcultural Archived 2 January 2018 at the Wayback Machine, yourdictionary.com George Modelski; Tessaleno Devezas; William R. Thompson (20 December 2007). Globalization as Evolutionary Process: Modeling Global Change. Routledge. p. 59. ISBN 9781135977641. Teodor Lucian Moga (2009). "The Contribution of the Neofunctionalist and Intergovernmentalist Theories to the Evolution of the European Integration Process" (PDF). Journal of Alternative Perspectives in the Social Sciences. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 December 2012. Retrieved 21 May 2012. "These are all the countries where the US has a military presence". Quartz. 2 April 2015. Archived from the original on 2 August 2019. Retrieved 2 August 2019. Pawel Zaleski Global Nongovernmental Administrative System: Geosociology of the Third Sector,  Gawin, Dariusz & Glinski, Piotr : "Civil Society in the Making", IFiS Publishers, Warszawa 2006 "Vaccine Delivery". Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Archived from the original on 31 May 2013. Retrieved 6 June 2013. "The Index of Global Philanthropy and Remittances 2012. Hudson Institute Center for Global Prosperity" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 July 2012. "North Korean Refugees NGO". Northkoreanrefugees.com. 20 October 2008. Archived from the original on 18 June 2010. Retrieved 23 August 2010. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (2 July 2008). "UNHCR Freedom in the World 2008 – North Korea". Unhcr.org. Archived from the original on 18 October 2012. Retrieved 23 August 2010. Kabeer, Nalia; Simeen; Mahmud (2004). "Rags, Riches and Women Workers: ExportOriented Garment Manufacturing in Bangladesh," from Linking Women Producers and Workers with Global Markets. London: Commonwealth Secretariat. pp. 137, 147, 148, 150, 152. ISBN 9780850927986. Wright W., Melissa (2007). "The Dialectics of Still Life: Murder, Women, and Disposability," from Disposable Women and Other Myths of Global Capitalism. New York: Routledge. pp. 73, 82, 83. Zimmerer, Karl S. (2006). Globalization & New Geographies of Conservation. University of Chicago Press. p. 1. ISBN 9780226983448. Krishnan, Armin (2016). War as Business: Technological Change and Military Service Contracting. Routledge. p. 157. ISBN 9781317000495. James, Paul (2014). "Faces of Globalization and the Borders of States: From Asylum Seekers to Citizens". Citizenship Studies. 18 (2): 208–23. doi:10.1080/13621025.2014.886440. S2CID 144816686. Boustan, Adain May. "Fertility and Immigration." UCLA. 15 January 2009. Siebeck, Florian. "Flugzeugparkplatz im Outback: Schlaf in der Wüste". FAZ.NET (in German). ISSN 01744909. Retrieved 16 May 2020. "UNWTO World Tourism Barometer" (PDF). UNWTO World Tourism Barometer. 11 (1). January 2013. Archived from the original (PDF) on 28 February 2013. Retrieved 9 April 2013. "Visa Openness Report 2015 January 2016" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 January 2016. "immigration". OxfordDictionaries.com. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on 18 May 2016. Retrieved 11 May 2016. "immigrate". MerriamWebster.com. MerriamWebster, In. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014. Retrieved 27 March 2014. "Who's who: Definitions". London, England: Refugee Council. 2016. Archived from the original on 16 September 2015. Retrieved 7 September 2015. "Mainstreaming of Migration in Development Policy and Integrating Migration in the Post2015 UN Development Agenda" (PDF). www.ilo.org. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 May 2017. Retrieved 23 December 2016. "Most London babies have foreignborn parent Archived 25 June 2018 at the Wayback Machine". Financial Times. 1 December 2016. Landis, Dan; Bhawuk, Dharm P. S. (2020). The Cambridge handbook of intercultural training (4th ed.). Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press & Assessment. ISBN 9781108854184. OCLC 1135909636. Caligiuri, Paula (2021). Build Your Cultural Agility The Nine Competencies of Successful Global Professionals. London: Kogan Page, Limited. ISBN 9781789666601. OCLC 1239982517. Gribble, C (2008). "Policy options for managing international student migration: the sending country's perspective". Journal of Higher Education Policy and Management. 30 (1): 25–39. doi:10.1080/13600800701457830. S2CID 155059201. "Measuring digital development: Facts and figures 2021". Telecommunication Development Bureau, International Telecommunication Union (ITU). Retrieved 16 November 2022. "Company Info – Facebook Newsroom". Facebook. Archived from the original on 15 November 2015. Retrieved 23 December 2016. Berglez, Peter (2008). "What is Global Journalism?". Journalism Studies. 9 (6): 845–58. doi:10.1080/14616700802337727. S2CID 142859567. "The Coronavirus Could Finally Kill the Wild Animal Trade". Foreign Policy. 25 February 2020. Archived from the original on 17 March 2020. Retrieved 6 April 2020. "Coronavirus: Which countries have confirmed cases?". Al Jazeera. 6 April 2020. Archived from the original on 31 March 2020. Retrieved 6 April 2020. "Coronavirus COVID19 Global Cases by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins". Archived from the original on 5 September 2019. Retrieved 25 March 2020. "Disaster in motion: 3.4 million travelers poured into US as coronavirus pandemic erupted". ABC News. 2 April 2020. Archived from the original on 2 April 2020. Retrieved 6 April 2020. "KOF Index of Globalization". ethz.ch. The KOF Swiss Economic Institute. 2014. Archived from the original on 31 May 2012. Retrieved 21 January 2013. 16 October 2006 Archived 6 March 2008 at the Wayback Machine. Data for the year 2006. No longer published. Vujakovic, Petra (2010). "How to Measure Globalization? A New Globalization Index (NGI)". Atlantic Economic Journal. 38 (2): 237. doi:10.1007/s1129301092173. Overland, Indra (1 April 2016). "Energy: The missing link in globalization". Energy Research & Social Science. 14: 122. doi:10.1016/j.erss.2016.01.009. Archived from the original on 5 February 2018. Retrieved 7 April 2018. Sen, Amartya K. (1970). Collective choice and social welfare. San Francisco, CA: HoldenDay. "Definition of xenophobia in English from the Oxford dictionary". oxforddictionaries.com. Archived from the original on 31 July 2016. Retrieved 23 December 2016. "Define Xenophobia at Dictionary.com". Dictionary.com. Archived from the original on 1 January 2011. Retrieved 23 December 2016. Guido Bolaffi. Dictionary of race, ethnicity and culture. SAGE Publications Ltd., 2003. p. 332. "Poverty Analysis – Measuring Inequality". worldbank.org. Archived from the original on 22 June 2013. Retrieved 2 June 2013. "The Happy Planet Index". Neweconomics.org. Archived from the original on 26 September 2009. Retrieved 2 June 2013. Capra, Fritjof (2002). The Hidden Connections. New York, New York: Random House. ISBN 9780385494717. Sorrells, Kathryn. Intercultural Communication: Globalization and Social Justice. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 2013. Print. "Pope: isolationism and populism lead to war – Vatican News". www.vaticannews.va. 9 August 2019. Archived from the original on 9 August 2019. Retrieved 9 August 2019. Guttal, Shalmali (2007). "Globalisation". Development in Practice. 17 (4/5): 523–531. doi:10.1080/09614520701469492. ISSN 09614524. JSTOR 25548249. S2CID 218523141. Fiss, Peer C.; Hirsch, Paul M. (February 2005). "The Discourse of Globalization: Framing and Sensemaking of an Emerging Concept". American Sociological Review. 70 (1): 29–52. doi:10.1177/000312240507000103. S2CID 16331519. "Africans and Asians Tend to View Globalization Favorably; Europeans and Americans are More Skeptical". WorldPublicOpinion.org. 7 November 2006. Archived from the original on 12 February 2012. Retrieved 28 November 2019. "Widespread Unease about Economy and Globalization – Global poll" (PDF). BBC World Service. 2008. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 September 2014. Retrieved 24 March 2015. Gordon, Philip. 2004. "Globalization: Europe's Wary Embrace" Archived 29 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine. Yale Global, 1 November 2004. Fox, Justin (15 November 2007). "Why Denmark Loves Globalization". Time. Archived from the original on 23 October 2019. Retrieved 28 November 2019. Ip, Greg (18 July 2008). "The Declining Value Of Your College Degree". The Wall Street Journal. ISSN 00999660. Archived from the original on 29 February 2020. Retrieved 29 November 2019. Heizo, Takenaka; Ryokichi, Chida (1998). "Japan" (PDF). In Morrison, Charles E.; Soesastro, Hadi (eds.). Domestic Adjustments to Globalization. Tokyo: Japan Center for International Exchange. pp. 76–102. ISBN 4889070125. OCLC 40657196. Archived (PDF) from the original on 6 April 2011. Bhagwati, Jagdish (2004). In Defense of Globalization. Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780195330939. OCLC 719371219. Shoa, S. Rajgopal (2002). "Reclaiming Democracy, the Antiglobalization Movement in South Asia". Feminist Review (70): 134–137. JSTOR 1395975. Graham, Carol (1 January 2011). "Winners and Losers: Perspectives on Globalization from the Emerging Market Economies". Brookings. Archived from the original on 11 May 2011. Fuller, Dan; GeideStevenson, Doris (Fall 2003). "Consensus Among Economists: Revisited" (PDF). Journal of Economic Review. 34 (4): 369–87. doi:10.1080/00220480309595230. S2CID 143617926. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 September 2004. Retrieved 22 December 2016.(registration required) Friedman, Milton (1993). "The Case for Free Trade". Hoover Digest. 1997 (4): 42. Bibcode:1993SciAm.269e..42B. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican119342. Archived from the original on 22 January 2007. Whaples, Robert (2006). "Do Economists Agree on Anything? Yes!". The Economists' Voice. 3 (9). doi:10.2202/15533832.1156. S2CID 201123406. Mankiw, Gregory (7 May 2006). "Outsourcing Redux". Archived from the original on 2 April 2007. Retrieved 22 January 2007. "Poll Results | IGM Forum". www.igmchicago.org. Archived from the original on 22 June 2016. Retrieved 1 July 2016. Sachs, Jeffrey (2005). The End of Poverty. New York: Penguin Press. ISBN 9781594200458. OCLC 57243168. Peet, Richard; Hartwick, Elaine (2015). Theories of Development: Contentions, Arguments, Alternatives (3rd ed.). New York: The Guilford Press. p. 2. ISBN 9781462519576. OCLC 908634816. But economic growth can occur without touching problems like inequality or poverty when all the increase in income goes to a relatively few people. Beaudet, Pierre; Schafer, Jessica; Haslam, Paul A. (2012). Introduction to International Development: Approaches, Actors, and Issues. Oxford University Press. p. 112. ISBN 9780195440201. According to Oxfam International, the contrasting experiences of Latin America and East Asia illustrate that globalizationinduced growth and poverty can coexist. Even when the market expands, 'poor people are often excluded from opportunities by a lack of productive assets, weak infrastructure, poor education, and illhealth' Conversi, Daniele (2009) 'Globalization, ethnic conflict and nationalism Archived 7 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine', in B. Turner (ed.) Handbook of Globalization Studies. London: Routledge/ Taylor & Francis; Barkawi, Tarak (2005) Globalization and War. Rowman & Littlefield; Smith, Dennis (2006) Globalization: The Hidden Agenda. Cambridge: Polity Press. See also Barber, Benjamin R., Jihad vs. McWorld. Ballantine Books, 1996 "Number of billionaires worldwide surged to 2,754 in 2017". The Guardian. 15 May 2018. Archived from the original on 18 May 2018. Retrieved 18 May 2018. "Human Development Report 2003" (PDF). UNDP. 2003. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 April 2013. Retrieved 6 April 2013. Berg, Andrew G.; Ostry, Jonathan D. (2011). "Equality and Efficiency". Finance and Development. 48 (3). Archived from the original on 3 July 2012. Retrieved 10 September 2012. Martin Wolf (2004). Why Globalization Works. Yale University Press. ISBN 9780300102529. Retrieved 6 April 2013. Dollar, David; Kraay, Aart. "Trade, Growth, and Poverty". Finance and Development. International Monetary Fund. Archived from the original on 11 January 2012. Retrieved 6 June 2011. E.g. Pyun, Ju Hyun; Lee, JongWha (21 March 2009). "Globalisation promotes peace". Archived from the original on 25 October 2014. Retrieved 25 October 2014. See, for example, Roy Harrod, The Life of John Maynard Keynes, Macmillan, 1951; Donald Markwell, John Maynard Keynes and International Relations: Economic Paths to War and Peace, Oxford University Press, 2006. Keynes had colourfully described the globalization before World War I in The Economic Consequences of the Peace, Macmillan, 1919, chapter 2. Lee, Laurence (17 May 2007). "WTO blamed for India grain suicides". Al Jazeera. Archived from the original on 19 May 2007. Retrieved 17 May 2007. Bakan, Joel (2004). The Corporation. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 9780743247443. Perkins, John (2004). Confessions of an Economic Hit Man. San Francisco: BerrettKoehler. ISBN 9781576753019. "Fórum Social Mundial". Forumsocialmundial.org.br. Archived from the original on 18 September 2008. Retrieved 31 July 2010. "NAFTA at 10". Economic Policy Institute. Archived from the original on 30 June 2012. Retrieved 7 February 2012. Hurst E. Charles. Social Inequality: Forms, Causes, and consequences, 6th ed. p. 41 "USACOR.org". USACOR.org. 28 July 2009. Archived from the original on 20 May 2010. Retrieved 31 July 2010. Roche, Douglas. "The Case for a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly" (PDF). The World Federalist Movement – Institute for Global Policy. Archived from the original (PDF) on 31 May 2013. Retrieved 28 May 2012. Altinay, Hakan (2010). "The Case for Global Civics". Global Economy and Development at Brookings. Archived from the original on 3 June 2010. "Global Parliament | World Citizens Association (Australia)". australia. Archived from the original on 19 August 2019. Retrieved 19 August 2019. Altinay, Hakan (June 2010). "A Global Civics: Necessary? Feasible?". Global Policy. Archived from the original on 26 September 2012. Retrieved 16 July 2012. Meyjes (also: Posthumus Meyjes), Gregory Paul (1999). "Language and Universalization: a 'Linguistic Ecology' Reading of Bahá'í Writ". The Journal of Bahá'í Studies. Vol. IX (1). Ottawa: Association for Bahá'í Studies. pp. 51–63. "Cosmopolitan". Dictionary.com. Archived from the original on 2 January 2016. Retrieved 7 April 2012. Kwame Anthony Appiah, "Cosmopolitan Patriots," Critical Inquiry 23, no. 3 (Spring, 1997): 617–39. Marshall McLuhan and Bruce R. Powers (17 September 1992) The Global Village: Transformations in World Life and Media in the 21st century . Oxford University Press: 17 September 1992 Chapman, Roger. Culture wars: an encyclopedia of issues, viewpoints, and voices, Volume 1. 2009: M.E. Sharp "International cooperation as a steppingstone to a world government". Global Policy Journal. Archived from the original on 3 December 2013. Retrieved 15 June 2013. "Slowbalisation". The Economist. Vol. 430, no. 9127. 26 January 2019. ProQuest 2171135679. Jacques Derrida (May 2004) Enlightenment past and to come Archived 19 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine, speech at the party for 50 years of Le Monde diplomatique Morris, Douglas "Globalization and Media Democracy: The Case of Indymedia", Shaping the Network Society, MIT Press 2003. Courtesy link to (prepublication version) FIS.utoronto.ca Archived 4 March 2009 at the Wayback Machine Juris, Jeffrey S. (2008). Networking Futures: The Movements against Corporate Globalization. Durham: Duke University Press. p. 2. ISBN 9780822342694. Staggenborg, S. (2011). Social movements (Rev. ed.). New York: Oxford University Press. Engler, M. (30 May 2007). "The AntiGlobalization Movement Defined Share The World's Resources". Retrieved 14 March 2013.l "The treachery of the lites Elite sense of irresponsibility". The Independent. 10 March 1995. Archived from the original on 27 August 2017. Retrieved 19 September 2018. Snow, D.A., Soule, S.A., & Kriesi, H. (2004). The Blackwell companion to social movements. Malden, MA: Blackwell Pub. Frieden, Jeffry A. (1991). "Invested Interests: The Politics of National Economic Policies in a World of Global Finance". International Organization. 45 (4): 425–51. doi:10.1017/s0020818300033178. ISSN 15315088. JSTOR 2706944. S2CID 154738660. Kolas, Logan. "How Tariffs and Regressive Trade Policies Hurt the Poor". The Heritage Foundation. Archived from the original on 30 March 2019. Retrieved 30 March 2019. Ottaway, Marina (September 2001). "Corporatism Goes Global". Global Governance: A Review of Multilateralism and International Organizations. 7 (3). doi:10.1163/1942672000703006. Archived from the original on 3 September 2014. Retrieved 28 August 2014. Storper Michael (2000). "Lived effects of the Contemporary Economy: Globalization, Inequality, and Consumer Society". Public Culture. 12 (2): 375–409. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.571.5793. doi:10.1215/08992363122375. S2CID 53599498. Cohen, Maurie J. (July 2013). "Collective dissonance and the transition to postconsumerism". Futures. 52: 42–51. doi:10.1016/j.futures.2013.07.001. "GINI index (World Bank estimate) | Data". data.worldbank.org. Retrieved 23 July 2020. Mertes, Tom; Bello, Walden F.; Bové, José; Cassen, Bernard; et al., eds. (2004). A Movement of Movements: Is Another World Really Possible?. London: Verso. ISBN 1859845045. OCLC 53243132. della Porta, D. 2005. "The Social Bases of the Global Justice Movement: Some Theoretical Reflections and Empirical Evidence from the First European Social Forum." Civil Society and Social Movements Programme Paper No. 21.Geneva: UNRISD (United Nations Research Institute for Social Development). Education and Social Justice By J. Zajda, S. Majhanovich, V. Rust, 2006, ISBN 1402047215 Nursing ethics: across the curriculum and into practice By Janie B. Butts, Karen Rich, Jones and Bartlett Publishers 2005, ISBN 9780763747350 "Legal Birth Definition Act – Act 135 of 2004" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 December 2013. Retrieved 1 June 2012. Rosling, Hans (2013). "How much do you know about the world?". BBC News. BBC. Archived from the original on 14 July 2014. Retrieved 9 July 2014. Stiglits Joseph E. (13 October 2013). "Inequality is a Choice". New York Times. Archived from the original on 25 November 2018. Retrieved 9 July 2014. "Outlook on the Global Agenda 2014" (PDF). World Economic Forum. Archived (PDF) from the original on 10 February 2015. Retrieved 9 July 2014. Pavcnik, Nina; Pavcnik, Nina (September 2005). "Child Labor in the Global Economy". Journal of Economic Perspectives. 19 (1): 199–220. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.488.791. doi:10.1257/0895330053147895. Seguino, Stephanie; Grown, Caren (November 2006). "Gender equity and globalization: macroeconomic policy for developing countries". Journal of International Development. 18 (8): 1081–104. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.589.4614. doi:10.1002/jid.1295. Pdf version – via the World Bank. Archived 5 June 2013 at the Wayback Machine Lourdes, Benería (2014). Gender, development, and globalization: economics as if all people mattered. Berik, Günseli, Floro, Maria (Second ed.). New York. ISBN 9780415537483. OCLC 903247621. Foroohar, Rana (3 June 2016). "Globalization's True Believers Are Having Second Thoughts". TIME. Archived from the original on 17 June 2016. Retrieved 12 July 2018. Kennedy, Paul. (2006.) The Parliament of Man: The Past, Present, and Future of the United Nations. New York: Harper Collins. ISBN 9780375501654 "Ideology and Sustainability". Formal.stanford.edu. Archived from the original on 4 February 2012. Retrieved 13 June 2012. Ronald Bailey from the February 2002 issue (February 2002). "Debunking Green Myths". Reason.com. Archived from the original on 10 July 2012. Retrieved 13 June 2012. Donald Gibson. Environmentalism: Ideology and Power. Nova Science Pub Inc. 2003 Low, Nicholas. (2002). Global Ethics and Environment. Routledge Science. ISBN 9780415197359. Lechner, Frank J., and John Boli. 2012. The Globalization Reader, 4th ed. WileyBlackwell. ISBN 9780470655634. NorbergHodge, Helena (1992). Ancient futures: learning from Ladakh (Sierra Club Books paperback ed.). San Francisco: Sierra Club Books. ISBN 9780871566430. Levinson, Arik; M. Scott Taylor (2008). "Unmasking the Pollution Haven Effect" (PDF). International Economic Review. 49 (1): 223–54. doi:10.1111/j.14682354.2008.00478.x. S2CID 40982519. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2 June 2018. Retrieved 29 November 2019. "Farmers, environmentalists slam 'sellout' EUMercosur trade deal". France24. 29 June 2019. Archived from the original on 25 August 2019. Retrieved 25 August 2019. "EU urged to halt trade talks with S. America over Brazil abuses". France 24. 18 June 2019. Archived from the original on 25 August 2019. Retrieved 25 August 2019. "We must not barter the Amazon rainforest for burgers and steaks". The Guardian. 2 July 2019. Archived from the original on 24 August 2019. Retrieved 25 August 2019. Clapp, J. "Food Security and International Trade Unpacking disputed narratives" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 28 January 2018. Flaten and Hisano, 2007. Food Security Policy in a Food Importing Country: The Case of NorwayChapter 1: Introduction to the contemporary world and globalizationhello studentsso today as we start our discussionabout our course about contemporaryworldtry let us try to find out why do weconsumethis foods why do we go to fast foodsuch as jollibee and mcdowhy do we subscribe on thissubscriptions like for example netflixand why do we buy items on mobilelegendsor skin on mobile legends or items indotaor have you ever asked yourself why doyou buya hundred bucks of coffee ora 2000 box of planner in starbucksor patronize apple productssuch as iphone iwatch macbookand those tabletswhy do jinky pacquiao and heartevangelistaspend millions just fora bicycle in a bagthis is because we are live contemporaryworldcontemporary world means that thisis the modern world we are living thecurrentworld that we are celebratingso as we discuss contemporary worldwe better understand these topicsthese two topics here are global age andglobalizationwhat does it mean global agewhen we say global age we tryto see a period of time and we believein the contemporary world that the worldis agingaccording to its definition it is aperiod of timewhen there is a pervading sense ofinterconnectedness ofall human beings of common faithfor human species and a threat to itslifeon this earth so let us go back with thedefinitionabout global age meaning to say thisis this tells us that this is a periodof timewhere human beings are interconnectedwith each otherdespite that we are not living in thesame roofdespite that we are not living in thesame countrywe are still connected with oneculture one tradition and onecommon faith and that is for survivalof human speciesthese two topics here are global age andglobalizationwhat does it mean yes we know alreadywhat is global agetherefore let us try to analyzewhat is happening in the global age andthat isglobalization wow this isquite a very lengthy definition ofglobalizationbut let us try to dissect the definitionof globalizationsince we all know that we are nowcurrently experiencing theage which we call as the global agetherefore we have to better understandwhat is happening during global age andthat isglobalization of which it is a processof intercon interaction and interintegrationamong people companies and government ofdifferentnations nations so that's itthat's that's the first definition ofwhich take note it is a process meaningto sayit's a step to step process you cannotjumpfrom step one to step five while theothers are left behindmeaning to say it goes along with aprocessit goes along with the specific steps inachieving globalizationand this process involves two thingsthe interaction and inter integrationmeaning to saypeople companies and government interactwith each otherdespite of their differences andsimilaritiesthey interact and thus if they theirinteraction isgood or bad they are now beingintegrated as one okayand another definition it is a processdriven byinternational trade and investment andaided by informationtechnology sowhen we discuss globalization we discussabouteconomic globalization on our succeedingdiscussion you will learn that the maintoolor the main drive of globalization iseconomic globalizationso part of it is international trade andinvestmentand aided with information technology orthe technology we are experiencing todayanother is it discussed herethe process has its effects we believethat all of the things we do on earthhas effects whether whether it is goodor bad positive or negative or advantageor disadvantage all of the things inearthhas effects sowhat are these effects effects on theenvironmenton culture on political systemson economic development and prosperityand on human physical wellbeing insocieties around the worldtake note one of the effects inenvironmenta very good example of it is havingclimate change todayon culture we try to adopt differentcultures like for examplethe adaptation of us loving kpopor loving korean dramas and lovingkorean pop music or popculture or korean culture today sothat's one of the example ofglobalizationand let us try to take note aboutglobalizationis first it isabout liberalization and globalintegration of markettake note that with this discuss thatone major drive of globalizationis economics and that's why weare trying to look on the market systemmeaning to say liberalization when weare talking about liberalizationit talks about freedom to choosefreedom to have businesses so that's itthat's globalization next isglobalizationis inevitable and irreversiblewhen we are talking about inevitable andirreversible meaning to saywe cannot erase we cannot vanishglobalization because globalization ishere we cannot go back to the time likefor examplewe cannot can no longer go back to theprehispanicage or even on the renaissance or evenon the medieval age of the worldwe have to face globalizationnext is nobody is in charge ofglobalizationyou me and us is never in charge ofmaking globalizationwe are just here as one of the toolsthat drivesglobalization itself we are just hereas part of the process of globalizationnext is benefits everyone in the longrunyou and me us human race and humanspeciesbenefits as being part of the processof the of globalization yes the benefitmay be an advantage or a disadvantage toothers but let us try to look on abrighter sidethat globalization benefits all of usnext is this further spread of democracyin the worldgoing back to your social sciencedemocracy talks about the majority ruleor meaning to say the majority rule mustprevailand the minority must be protected soif it is democracy therefore when wetry to go on the process ofglobalization thereforewe try to spread the majority ruleor what is or what we call as thesonombonumor the goodfor all that's sonombonum and lastlyglobalization requires a global war onterrorwhich means that when we engage on theprocessit deals a war why becausewe try to change the current situationor the current status quo we are livingso that's it that's globalization i hopeyou havebetter understanding about globalizationif you have questionsfeel free to ask on our nextsession now let's movethese two topics here are global age andglobalizationwhat does it mean contemporary worldcontemporary world means that thisis the modern world we are living thecurrentworld that we are celebratingso as we discuss contemporary worldwe better understand these topicsand conceptualizing what isglobalizationso later we will understand on thedefinition of ritzerof which it is a transplantatoryprocess or processes involved increasingliquidityand growing multidirectional flowsas well as the structures they encounterand create that's according to ritzerlet's try to analyze it laterthe underlined words nowlet us go first on conceptualizing howdid wedeal with the process of globalizationthere are three processes to considerin understanding globalization firstis creating people creating what we callastransnational what does it mean bytransnationalthis are individuals this is me this isyou creating transnational of whichwe possess we possess and weinterconnect with each other despite ofour differences differences in culturetradition language and many othersso we created individuals now wetransform these individuals and wecreatedsocial groups or communitiestherefore we created nowtransnationalitywhich is the rise of new communities newcommunities that createsnew social identities in our today'sworld so that's it upon creating a newcommunitywe create now new social conditionmeaning to say we create now a newsocial communitynew norm new culture new traditionof which we call it as globalityor it is an omnipresence to the processof globalization or this is the productof globalization all rightso that's it the process we createpeople and we create transnationaltherefore as we create peoplewe create communities and that istransnationalityand lastly as we create communitywe create now a social condition whichwe callas globality or the product ofglobalizationworld contemporary worldmeans that this is the modern world weare livingthe current world that we arecelebratingso as we discuss contemporary worldwe better understand these topicsso as ritzer's definitionas an increasing liquidity andmultidirectional flowsas a definition of globalization tobetter understand itwe use metaphors going back to yourenglishwe use the figurative language as asubstitute to wordsor definitions of things like similehyperbole and many others solet's try to deeper our understandingabout metaphors so firstis solidity we use solidityas what as to describeas describe a limited mobility ofpeople things informationand places over time going back to yourchemistry when we saysolid the atoms are compactand cannot easily move orit has limited mobility like in ourglobalizationin the contemporary world soliditymeaning to saywe have limited mobility because we callit there is what we call asbarriers bar years later will bediscussedcontrary to solidity is liquidityit's an increased ease of movement ofpeoplethings information and places in theglobal agemeaning to say going back to yourchemistry againwhen we say liquids atoms arefreeflowing therefore they free fromany directions that's liquidityso here in contemporary worldliquidity means we are the peoplenot the atoms but people thinksinformation and places has an increaseand free flowing all rightanother metaphor is heavy whenwhen therefore it hardens or there is alimited moveand if it is heavy we have difficulty tomoveand if it's difficult to move thereforeit is heavy like for exampleif you're carrying a very tons of loadtherefore it is heavy for you to movecontrary to it is easier to move meaningto sayif it is easy if it is ifif we don't have any burdens orbarriers at all at all when we aremovingtherefore it is easier to move and it iswhat they callas lie soupon moving upon moving to solid toliquidheavy to light there is what we call asflow the movement of peoplethinks information and due to thewhat porosity of globalbarriers so there are barriersof which flows affects laterwe will know what are these barriers sotake notethat globalization globalization flowsfrom solid to liquid from heavyto light so that's the movement ofglobalization to better understand themovement or the flowof globalization let us try to look aton thisillustration below looking to theillustration below on your right on yourleftrather this is the evolutionof communication as you can see we havea heartened we have a hard timethere is there is a limited mobility ofcommunication beforelooking back if you would like tocommunicate beforeyou have to burn woods and to createand to create smoke to signalone community to the other that you havea you have a message for themthus we use dove so it transformedand we use dove or crows or birdsto deliver our message to a specificpersonor to specific groups however as timegoes bywe changed that one and we createdcomputerscomputers that delivers our messageto the other person with just one clickbecause of a very bulky we turn it downinto laptops laptopsthat are easier and handy for all of usto send message and as we goesand as we go and as we flow withglobalizationwe turned laptops to mobile phonesmobile phones that as an easy as oneclickedwe could send message we could recordwe could have cameras on your mobilephones as easy as thatso that's it as you can see the flow ofglobalizationfrom us from a solid or a limitedmobilitywe transform it with an increasemovement of communication now as you cansee in the nextfigure you could see how we write ourlettersbefore we use it as a handwrittenso we created and we improvise bycreating typewriters we typewrite ourlettersand then send it to postmailshowever we change it nowwith by the use of our computers and ourlaptopswe try to put it on on a wordthen try to print it and deliver it to apersonhowever we change it now by the use ofour tablets and our faultsjust by a click of a hand a minutethe person will receive your messageso that's it that's how globalizationturned to become one of the succeedinginfluence of todaycontemporary world contemporary worldmeans that this is the modern world weare livingthe current world that we arecelebratingso as we discuss contemporary worldwe better understand these topicsso we have discussed that one drive ofglobalizationis economic globalizationso what does it mean by economicglobalization it is a growingeconomic linkages at global levelmeaning to saythat since we are experiencingeconomic globalization we areexperiencingan economic linkages in a global levelwe link from one country to the otherone state to the other in terms ofeconomy the global capitalist system hasproduced a veryuneven playing field why does it whydoes itwe produced and very uneven playingfieldbecause we produce an even playing fieldbecausewe we try to makesocial classes rightwe tried to make this onethe great wall of chinato the huge digital divide in the worldtodayso from from this onefrom the from the great wall of china tothedigital divide happening today take notethat before we were divided because ofgreat wall of china that's why china wasbeing isolated beforeas being ostracized as one of thecountries in the worldhowever today we are divided digitallythat some of the countries can afford tohave online classesand some of the poorer countries cannotafford online classes they have the hardtime to do thatso why mobilizing social mobilizingum technology today is a very difficultone not just for you not just for me butfor all of us third world countriesnow we have discussed a while ago withbarriers what are these barriers we havestructural barriers meaning to saythis are barriers embedded on oursocietiesand this are first social classesmeaning to say we are divided because wearepoor because we are middle classbecause they are rich that's a barrierfor all of usright compubrica thisbecause they're a lot seeking for itand upper classes tend not to go backto um poor that'sone of the barriers that is happeningtoday that's why there is a saying in ain a bullet in political science thatthethe rich becomes richer and the poorbecomespoorer it's the social classesnext structural barrier is racewe all know that despite that we fightfor equality and equitywe still we still have racialdiscriminationdiscrimination not just ofour race but for our colors like forexample if there are blacks we tend topretend to discriminate because we areblacks we're never been contentedbeing being white or being morena thiswe stillwe still uh discriminate them based ofoutbeats of their colorbase of their race like for examplewhite we stillhave the label why do media still labelum like for examplewhy do we need to label those things soin factwe could we could just say thatone person killed some killed somebodyright but yesagain the order of which um isolateis community why do we need to labelthis community as bajacommunity just to just to flame or justtoput some just to put some fireon on discrimination on bajaso that's it another structural barrieris ethnicity we need to saylike grace we tend to discriminateor we tend to look down on othersit's ethnicity like if you are if youare a manobo if you arethis and that if you come from thistribe why do we need towhy do we need to discriminate or why dowe need to look down on thisif we are if we believe that we are allequalsnext is gender today it's a very hottopicthat do we necessarily need to havegender equality right the equivalence ofmen and women and other genders rightso it's a very long topic and we will bediscussing that onesooner next isthe region of the world the division ofthe worldthe north and the south dividesso one of the topics that we will bediscussing is this onethe divi the division of the worldand lastly as part of economicglobalizationas um one of the product is this oneas you can see as you can seepeople tend to go fartheryour american dream as they call itright your america american dream as youcall itso it happenshere the brain drain due to economicglobalization we tend to havebrain drains in the country why thosegood person or those excellent thosesmartpeople around the world or in ourcountries tend to goto the other countries and try to workthere because there's no workavailable here in our country and thenwe intend and we hadand we became brain drains that's whyas you can see in the picturedoctors i'm a scientist but thegovernmentdon't don't see it as an assetrather as liability that's why they goto other places and theyfind their luck there as they see theirlockand as they see that that opportunityso that's it that's what they call asbrain draincontemporary world contemporary worldmeans that this is the modern world weare livingthe current world that we arecelebratingso as we discuss contemporary worldwe better understand these topicsnow to better understand aboutglobalization we have to betterunderstand aboutthe origins and history of globalizationthereare four origins and history ofglobalization and together let's try toseethe recent changes that happened inglobalizationfirst in the origins and history ofglobalizationis globalization which we call ashard wire theory orthe urge meaning to saywhen we are talking about there are manyperspectivesright of origins of globalizationwhere do globalization started firstis there is one theory or oneperspective and that is what they callas hardwirewhen we say hardwired simple it's theurgefor a better life meaning to saythat globalization stemson the urge of human being of having agoodlife looking on this exampleit seems like a darwin's evolutionhoweverthis is an evolution of communicationagainsince we have the hard time to get newsand communicationfrom newspaper we tend to innovate andcreateradios and after radios we want to seevisual news that's why we createdtelevisionsand since televisions becomesone of our assets tends to havethe creation of laptopsand computers and now with just oneclickof your hand by the use of your cellphonesyou could have your news at your handsthat's why delicate newspaper industriesbecause some of us are not using alreadynewspapers we use alreadythe click of our phones so that's itthat's hardwired the origin ofglobalization startedwith the urge of human beings for abetter life that's whywhen when we tendwe tend to go back to maslow's hierarchyof needswe tend to have that human beings haveendless need endless needs and wantsthat's whywe created and we innovated more andmoreand more that's why we still like forexample one of it is your beautyproductswhy is it beauty products becausethere is an urge to have a better skinto become morebeautiful that's why that is what wecall as hardwired theorynow to better understand aboutglobalization we have to betterunderstand aboutthe origins and history ofglobalization there are fourorigins and history of globalization andtogetherlet's try to see the recent changes thathappenedin globalizationnow the next example iscycle the origins another perspectiveaside from hardwiredis cycle meaning to say from the worditselfcycle but there is no such thing asstartand finish line of verbalizationthat globalization cycles from onestage to the other meaning to say ga toyouclang and globalization like for examplewe've come to this point and we aregoing back to that point like forexample on youron your fashion we tend to havethose kind of dresses before and nowwe change it we change becausethat dictates the call of time howeverwe change that one from and we gowe try to go back to whatwe used to do on globalizationright so that's cycle meaning to saythat there's no finish or start onglobalizationl to better understand aboutglobalization we have to betterunderstand aboutthe origins and history of globalizationthere arefour origins and history ofglobalization and together let's try toseethe recent changes that happened inglobalizationanother another perspective isepochs and origins i believeall of you have answered the question igave youthat if you could change one epochor event in history what would it be andwhythus accordinglyaccording to ritzer there are six greatepochs or waves of globalizationsthis are first and the 14thand 17th century which witnessed theglobalizationof religions meaning to saythat there is what they call as this iswhat we call astheor the medieval wave of the world whichwe discoverchristianity islam judaismprotestantism and many other kinds ofreligionthe globalization of religion howeverit changes during the 15th centurywhen we highlightedthe european colonial conquest meaningto saythe start of the start of the greateuropean conquest of whatis europeanaccordingly to our books they needspices righthowever according to historythey need three things they call itas the three g's meaning to say threeg's take notethey they colonialize countries becauseof three g'sfirst is that is godmeaning to say god they mean they meansasthey want to spread christianity aroundthe world so that's it secondis gold what does it mean by goldkennebunknot that one the gold they're talking isspices spices of which if they could getmore spices that's the gold for themand the third one is glory the morecountry countries they colonizethey are more glorified meaning to sayif they conquered one country to theothertherefore they means they are the mostpowerful country so againthree things that the european colonialconquestthe god gold andglory okayso as the change of colonial conquestwe have here the late 18th and 19thcenturiesduring the various intraeuropean warsled to globalizationdo you know this person this person isone of the greatwarriors of europe and that is napoleonbonapartehe conquered many places and thuscreated one of the glories of romenow since since thisis um the 18th centuries ofintraeuropean wars they don't alreadygainedthe 3gs they want warts asthey go along with different places theyengage with warsif madaok sila because if madagsela theywould get that place and therefore theywill be glorifiedokay and it changesin the mid 19th century to18th century the heyday of romemeaning to say the heyday of europeanimperialism meaning to saythey have almost conquered the worldthey have they have conquered manyof the asian countries such as singaporeby the great britainvietnam malaysia indonesia by the spainand many others so the heyday of guruthe haiti of rome so that's itand lastly is the postworld warperiod so as you can see this ischurchilland many great leaders of the world warii period so that's itthat's the great epochs of the worldperiod and lastly is the postcold warperiod when we say cold war period thisis the period of timewhich delete away ofgod's and bulletsbut they engaged in war of technologiesand the engage of war of knowledge andlearnings that's whyif you're familiar with neil armstrongit arises there as the first man in themoonin gonzilla right so monastery usno we are we are the firstone to step down on the moon so that iswhat we call as cold warthese are weapons butthey engage war based on their knowledgeand their technologies okaynow that's the epochs of thenow to better understand aboutglobalization we have to betterunderstand aboutthe origins and history ofglobalization there are fourorigins and history of globalization andtogetherlet's try to see the recent changes thathappenedin globalizationlet us try to go to thethe recent changes the eventsis the events in history are many othersand one of which will be discussed onour succeeding topics now let's try tounderstand the recent changes thathappenedto globalization first isthe emergence of the united states asthe global powerin the years following world war ii meaning to sayafter world war ii the dominant countrythat that that holds power is u.s that's why we all know and we emergethe captain america so we will try toanalyzethe movie captain america and supermanto be exactnext is the emergence ofcorporations or mncs or transnationalcorporationssuch as this picture below sothe rise of the different corporationsaround the worldand lastly is the the demiseof soviet union and the end of cold warmeaning to say the disintegration ofsoviet union oraccess of rate union and created withmany countries suchas russia and many othersand the end of cold war we havediscussed already what is cold war okayso that's the recent changes and theserecent changeswill be discussed further on oursucceeding topicsso that's it that's what we call asthe first chapter of the definitionof globalization i hope you haveunderstandsome of it and you would really readand understand all of those okay if youhave questionsfeel free to ask those questionsum sooner or later as we meet virtuallyokay so for the moment you have thelesson and you have to understandon this video thank you so much and ihope you're doing goodgod bless everyonenow to better understand aboutglobalization we have to betterunderstandabout the origins and history ofglobalization there are fourorigins and history of globalization andtogetherlet's try to see the recent changesthat happened in globalizationcontemporary world contemporary worldmeans that this is the modern world weare livingthe current world that we arecelebratingso as we discuss contemporary worldwe better understand these topicsTHE STRUCTURES OF GLOBALIZATIONWhat is globalization?Globalization is the process by which ideas, knowledge, information, goods and services spread around the world. In business, the term is used in an economic context to describe integrated economies marked by free trade, the free flow of capital among countries and easy access to foreign resources, including labor markets, to maximize returns and benefit for the common good.Globalization, or globalisation as it is known in some parts of the world, is driven by the convergence of cultural and economic systems. This convergence promotes  and in some cases necessitates  increased interaction, integration and interdependence among nations. The more countries and regions of the world become intertwined politically, culturally and economically, the more globalized the world becomes. How globalization worksIn a globalized economy, countries specialize in the products and services they have a competitive advantage in. This generally means what they can produce and provide most efficiently, with the least amount of resources, at a lower cost than competing nations. If all countries are specializing in what they do best, production should be more efficient worldwide, prices should be lower, economic growth widespread and all countries should benefit  in theory.Policies that promote free trade, open borders and international cooperation all drive economic globalization. They enable businesses to access lower priced raw materials and parts, take advantage of lower cost labor markets and access larger and growing markets around the world in which to sell their goods and services.Money, products, materials, information and people flow more swiftly across national boundaries today than ever. Advances in technology have enabled and accelerated this flow and the resulting international interactions and dependencies. These technological advances have been especially pronounced in transportation and telecommunications.Among the recent technological changes that have played a role in globalization are the following:Internet and internet communication. The internet has increased the sharing and flow of information and knowledge, access to ideas and exchange of culture among people of different countries. It has contributed to closing the digital divide between more and less advanced countries.Communication technology. The introduction of 4G and 5G technologies has dramatically increased the speed and responsiveness of mobile and wireless networks.list of benefits of 5G network technologyIncreased speed and bandwidth are among the benefits of 5G technology.IoT and AI. These technologies are enabling the tracking of assets in transit and as they move across borders, making crossborder product management more efficient.Blockchain. This technology is enabling the development of decentralized databases and storage that support the tracking of materials in the supply chain. Blockchain facilitates the secure access to data required in industries such as healthcare and banking. For example, blockchain provides a transparent ledger that centrally records and vets transactions in a way that prevents corruption and breaches.list of 10 benefits of blockchain technology10 benefits of blockchain technologyTransportation. Advances in air and fast rail technology have facilitated the movement of people and products. And changes in shipping logistics technology moves raw materials, parts and finished products around the globe more efficiently.Manufacturing. Advances such as automation and 3D printing have reduced geographic constraints in the manufacturing industry. 3D printing enables digital designs to be sent anywhere and physically printed, making distributed, smallerscale production near the point of consumption easier. Automation speeds up processes and supply chains, giving workforces more flexibility and improving output.Why is globalization important?Globalization changes the way nations, businesses and people interact. Specifically, it changes the nature of economic activity among nations, expanding trade, opening global supply chains and providing access to natural resources and labor markets.Changing the way trade and financial exchange and interaction occurs among nations also promotes the cultural exchange of ideas. It removes the barriers set by geographic constraints, political boundaries and political economies.For example, globalization enables businesses in one nation to access another nation's resources. More open access changes the way products are developed, supply chains are managed and organizations communicate. Businesses find cheaper raw materials and parts, less expensive or more skilled labor and more efficient ways to develop products.With fewer restrictions on trade, globalization creates opportunities to expand. Increased trade promotes international competition. This, in turn, spurs innovation and, in some cases, the exchange of ideas and knowhow. In addition, people coming from other nations to do business and work bring with them their own cultures, which influence and mix with other cultures.The many types of exchange that globalization facilitates can have positive and negative effects. For instance, the exchange of people and goods across borders can bring fresh ideas and help business. However, this movement can also heighten the spread of disease and promote ideas that might destabilize political economies.History of globalizationAlthough many people consider globalization a twentieth century phenomenon, the process has been happening for millennia. Examples include the following:The Roman Empire. Going back to 600 B.C., the Roman Empire spread its economic and governing systems through significant portions of the ancient world for centuries.Silk Road trade. These trade routes, which date from 130 B.C. to 1453 A.D., represented another wave of globalization. They brought merchants, goods and travelers from China through Central Asia and the Middle East to Europe.PreWorld War I. European countries made significant investments overseas in the decades before World War I. The period from 1870 to 1914 is called the golden age of globalization.PostWorld War II. The United States led the effort to create a global economic system with a set of broadly accepted international rules. Multinational institutions were established such as the United Nations (UN), International Monetary Fund, World Bank and World Trade Organization to promote international cooperation and free trade.The term globalization as it's used today came to prominence in the 1980s, reflecting several technological advancements that increased international interactions. IBM's introduction of the personal computer in 1981 and the subsequent evolution of the modern internet are two examples of technology that helped drive international communication, commerce and globalization.Globalization has ebbed and flowed throughout history, with periods of expansion and retrenchment. The 21st century has witnessed both. Global stock markets plummeted after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the United States, but rebounded in subsequent years.More recently, nationalist political movements have slowed immigration, closed borders and increased trade protectionism. The pandemic has had similar effects on borders and immigration and also disrupted supply chains. However, overall, the early 21st century has seen a dramatic increase in the pace of global integration. Rapid advances in technology and telecommunications are responsible for much of this change.What is the G20?The G20, or Group of Twenty, is an international forum that aims to foster international cooperation by addressing global economic issues, such as financial stability and climate change. The G20 is made up of 19 countries and the European Union, including most of the world's largest economies.The nations involved account for 60% of the planet's population, 75% of global trade and 80% of world GDP. It was founded in 1999, following the 1997 financial crisis, and has met every year since then.Since 2008, the G20 has held an annual summit that brings together heads of state to discuss important economic issues. The G20's president is selected annually on a rotating basis, and that person's home country hosts the summit.In 2019, the summit was held in Osaka, Japan, and it addressed issues such as women's empowerment, climate change and artificial intelligence. The 2020 summit was to be in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, but was held virtually because of the pandemic. Three of the main themes addressed were empowering people, especially women and youth; safeguarding the planet; and longterm strategies to share the benefits of innovation and technological advancement. The 2021 summit will be held in Rome, Italy, and will focus on recovery from the pandemic and climate change.The members of G20 are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union. Spain is a permanent guest of the organization.Types of globalization: Economic, political, culturalThere are three types of globalization.Economic globalization. Here, the focus is on the integration of international financial markets and the coordination of financial exchange. Free trade agreements, such the North American Free Trade Agreement and the TransPacific Partnership are examples of economic globalization. Multinational corporations, which operate in two or more countries, play a large role in economic globalization.Political globalization. This type covers the national policies that bring countries together politically, economically and culturally. Organizations such as NATO and the UN are part of the political globalization effort.Cultural globalization. This aspect of globalization focuses in a large part on the technological and societal factors that are causing cultures to converge. These include increased ease of communication, the pervasiveness of social media and access to faster and better transportation.These three types influence one another. For example, liberalized national trade policies drive economic globalization. Political policies also affect cultural globalization, enabling people to communicate and move around the globe more freely. Economic globalization also affects cultural globalization through the import of goods and services that expose people to other cultures.Effects of globalizationThe effects of globalization can be felt locally and globally, touching the lives of individuals as well as the broader society in the following ways:Individuals. Here, a variety of international influences affect ordinary people. Globalization affects their access to goods, the prices they pay and their ability to travel to or even move to other countries.Communities. This level encompasses the impact of globalization on local or regional organizations, businesses and economies. It affects who lives in communities, where they work, who they work for, their ability to move out of their community and into one in another country, among other things. Globalization also changes the way local cultures develop within communities.Institutions. Multinational corporations, national governments and other organizations such as colleges and universities are all affected by their country's approach to and acceptance of globalization. Globalization affects the ability of companies to grow and expand, a university's ability to diversify and grow its student body and a government's ability to pursue specific economic policies.While the effects of globalization can be observed, analyzing the net impact is more complex. Proponents often see specific results as positive and critics of globalization view the same results as negative. A relationship that benefits one entity may damage another, and whether globalization benefits the world at large remains a point of contention.Comparison of internationalization and localization product strategiesInternationalization and localization are both product strategies used in globalizing industries.Examples of globalizationMultinational corporations are a tangible example of globalization. Some examples include the following:McDonald's had 39,198 fastfood restaurants in 119 countries and territories, according to its Securities and Exchange Commission filing at the end of 2020. It employed more than 2.2 million people at that time, the filing said.Ford Motor Company reported in 2021 that it works with about 1,200 tier 1 suppliers around the globe.Amazon's recent expansion has it using tens of thousands of suppliers and employing more than nearly 1.3 million full and parttime employees.Through their influence on social and economic development in the countries that host them, multinational corporations embody the contradictions of globalization. They bring jobs, skills and wealth to the region they are investing or doing business in. But they also can destroy local businesses, exploit cheap labor and threaten indigenous cultures. The benefits they offer are often unsustainable because the loyalty of multinationals is to their investors and bottom lines and not to the local people, economies and cultures where they are doing business.Another example of globalization is the response to the COVID19 pandemic. Because the world was able to communicate across boundaries, nations were able to work together to quickly produce vaccines for the virus. In addition, doctors traveled where they were needed. For example, Cuba sent doctors to Italy at the beginning of the pandemic to assist with the crisis as it developed there.However, countries also enacted strict travel restrictions and many closed their borders to cut down on the free movement of people and spread of the virus.Benefits of globalizationGlobalization enables countries to access less expensive natural resources and lower cost labor. As a result, they can produce lower cost goods that can be sold globally. Proponents of globalization argue that it improves the state of the world in many ways, such as the following:Solves economic problems. Globalization moves jobs and capital to places that need these resources. It gives rich countries access to lower cost resources and labor and poorer countries access to jobs and the investment funds they need for development.Promotes free trade. Globalization puts pressure on nations to reduce tariffs, subsidies and other barriers to free trade. This consequently promotes economic growth, creates jobs, makes companies more competitive and lowers prices for consumers.Spurs economic development. Theoretically, globalization gives poorer countries access to foreign capital and technology they would not otherwise have. Foreign investment can result in an improved standard of living for the citizens of those nations.Encourages positive trends in human rights and the environment. Advocates of globalization point to improved attention to human rights on a global scale and a shared understanding of the impact of people and production on the environment.Promotes shared cultural understanding. Advocates view the increased ability to travel and experience new cultures as a positive part of globalization that can contribute to international cooperation and peace.Negative consequences of globalizationMany proponents view globalization as way to solve systemic economic problems. But critics see it as increasing global inequality. Among the critiques of globalization are the following issues:Destabilizes markets. Critics of globalization blame the elimination of trade barriers and the freer movement of people for undermining national policies and local cultures. Labor markets in particular are affected when people move across borders in search of higher paying jobs or companies outsource work and jobs to lower cost labor markets.Damages the environment. The transport of goods and people among nations generates greenhouse gas and all the negative effects it has on the environment. Global travel and trade also can introduce, sometimes inadvertently, invasive species to foreign ecosystems. Industries such as fishing and logging tend to go where business is most lucrative or regulations are less strict, which has resulted in overfishing and deforestation in some parts of the world.Lowers living standards. When companies move operations overseas to minimize costs, such moves can eliminate jobs and increase unemployment in sectors of the home country.Facilitates global recessions. Tightly integrated global markets carry a greater risk of global recessions. The 20072009 financial crisis and Great Recession is a good example of how intertwined global markets are and how financial problems in one country or region can quickly affect other parts of the world. Globalization reduces the ability of individual nations to effectively use monetary and fiscal policy to control the national economy.Damages cultural identities. Critics of globalization decry the decimation of unique cultural identities and languages that comes with the international movement of businesses and people. At the same time, the internet and social media are driving this trend even without the movement of people and commerce.Increases the likelihood of pandemics. Increased travel, critics say, has the potential to increase the risk of pandemics. The H1N1 (swine flu) outbreak of 2009 and coronavirus in 2020 and 2021 are two examples of serious diseases that spread to multiple nations quickly.Future of globalizationTechnological advances, particularly blockchain, mobile communication and banking, are fueling economic globalization.Nonetheless, rising levels of protectionism and antiglobalization sentiment in several countries could slow or even reverse the rapid pace of globalization. Nationalism and increasing trends toward conservative economic policies are driving these antiglobalization efforts.Global trade is also made more difficult and facing rising threats from other factors, such as these:climate changedecaying infrastructurecyber attackshuman rights abusesThe takeawayGlobalization is a longstanding trend that is in the process of changing and possibly slowing. There are advantages to the more open border and free trade that globalization promotes, as well as negative consequences.In a modern, postpandemic world, individuals, businesses and countries must consider both sides of the globalization issue. Learn how companies are rethinking global supply chains to avoid disruption and reap the benefits of globalization.Chapter 2: Structures of Globalizationhello there studentsnow we will be having our next topicwhich is the structures of globalizationso what do we mean by structures ofglobalizationall we know is that everything comeswith different structures when there isa processand when there is something that isinevitablethere should be a structure on itthereforewhen we discuss about globalizationthereforewe are trying to discuss the structuresof globalization in understanding thestructures of globalizationit is divided into three firstthis three are social politicaland economic first issocial what do we mean by socialglobalizationsocial globalization is a measure of howeasilyinformation and ideas passed betweenpeople in their own country and betweendifferent countries includes the accessto internetand social media networks meaning to saywhen we are talking aboutsocial globalization it tackles mainlythe interaction and interconnectednessof people through informationand ideas how do this informationand ideas transferred from one place tothe otheror from one medium to the other okaynext is political globalizationwhat do we mean by politicalglobalization political globalization isthe amount of politicalcooperation there between countriestake note when there are countrieswhen there are countries connecting orinteracting with each othertherefore they are on the process ofglobalizationhowever when they go along on thestructuretherefore as they interactand thus create what we call cooperationtherefore they are now doing politicalglobalization all right okay like forexampleif just if countries are just exchanginginformation and ideasthis are what we call only socialglobalization but if these countriesare now doing doing not justsharing ideas and information but theyare nowco operating towards a common goaland therefore that is what we call aspoliticalglobalization next stop isthe very most important and thetriggering partof globalization and that is what wecall aseconomic globalization on our previousdiscussions we have discussed thateconomic globalizationis the main main umtool towards achieving globalizationor economy itself is one of itspush towards globalization so what doesit mean by economic globalizationwhen we are discussing economicglobalization it iscountries that trade with many othercountriesand few trade barriers are economicallyglobalizedwhat does it mean when countriesexchangeinformation and ideas that involvesnow cooperation and thuscreates money or thuscreates wealth to a specific countryand thus um interactthrough the supply and demand chainthereforeit happens already what we call aseconomic globalizationhowever in in today's contemporary worldwe also discussed that through economicglobalizationwe are now reducing or decreasingfew trade barriers like for examplethe tariffs and taxes we havestill we are decreasing the amount oftaxeswe imposed to our imports and thus toourexports okay so todaybefore we discuss before we discusssocial and political let us firstdiscusswhat is economic globalization becauseeconomic economy is the basic foundationin which in whichwe should given primary importance inunderstanding the structure and thusglobalization itself all rightso what does it mean when we are talkingabouteconomic globalization to further extendits definitionit is what we call as the free movementof goods capital servicestechnology and informationmeaning to say that there is alreadywhat we callas movement and thus going back to themetaphors we are using in globalizationmovements in the contemporary worldand globalization is from solid toliquidthus in the economic globalization themovement ofgoods capital services and technologyand informationare on the liquid statemoreover it refers to the increasinginterdependenceof world economies as a result of agrowing scaleof crossborder trade of commodityand services of law of internationalcapital and wide of rapidspread of technologies let us nowdissectits definition this definition meaningto saythrough economic globalization countriesbecame interdependent among each othermeaning to say in their dependentby not just relying to one country buttomany countries by itself thatthus by relying or in beinginterdependent with other countriesmeans that through economicglobalizationwe are now fostering the two structuresof globalizationglobalization which are thesocial and political becausewe are now exchanging informationand ideas by exchanging it thereforewe cooperate and that is why we are nowhavinga boom economy amongeach countries all rightin economic integration also in economicglobalization there is what we call aseconomic integrationwhat does it mean by economicintegrationwhen we are talking about economicintegrationthis is the process take noteagain this economic integration thisis the process or arrangementbetween regions or countries to reduceor eliminate trade barriers what does itmean by trade barrierscommonly trade barriers are your taxesand your tariffs like for example youriphonesyour iphones being exportediphones from us being exported to thephilippinesare what there are taxesthat is that is attached on itso therefore we eliminate trade barriersnot by eliminating it by not not justsayingthat we will be vanishing or we will beerasing taxes but we will be reducingthe taxes so that the imports andexports would havea greater height towards the exchangein the process of economic integrationand to coordinate monetary and fiscalpolicies with common purpose ofincreasing the tradeto those countries involved take notethrough economic integration we are nowincreasing the trade towardsother countries meaning to say sincewe're increasing trades fromeconomic countries therefore we areincreasing not justthe economic movement of other countriesbut as well as our economic movementthat's why hoarding is not a solutionfor everythingwe need to saythen therefore we have to give it rightlike for example on our rise in thephilippinesnot necessarily that our rice is justfor filipinosbut to resolve but to resolve moreincome and thus more economic movementin our country therefore we have toexportwe have to export rights from othercountries such as vietnamindonesia and many parts ofthe world all right solooking on the illustration here as youcan seethis are what we call as this umillustration depicts what is economicintegration as a wholetake note this um thisfour for um for landhere represents regions or countrieswhen these regions and countries triedto collideor tried to connect or interact witheach otherthrough trade therefore they are doingeconomic integration thusby doing economic integration thereforethere should bepolicies right according to kimchi theclassroomin the economic integration also thereare policiesthat was made by whom bycountries by countries who are engagingeconomic integration or trade sothereforethey created monetary and fiscalpolicies therefore they're trying tocreate taxeson how what are the taxes to be imposedtariffs to be imposed on the productsthey are tryingto do and thus they are doing fiscalpolicies thereforewhat are what are the extent or what arethe limitationsof the products being exported andimportedfrom one country to the other countrythereforethrough economic integration we couldnowreduce the cost what does it mean byreduce the costtherefore by reducing the cost we needto saywe reduce we reduce the cost of ourimports and exports because we havealready connected with each other or weare already connected with othercountriesthat created with monetary and fiscalpolicies thereforewe try to reduce the cost of our importsand exportsas a result of the reduce of the costthereforethere is what we call as increase oftrade therefore we are now increasingnot just the supply and demandbut the trade not just from one countrybut to the other countries as wellokay so what are our thoughtsof economic integration is it good or isit badfor a country the thoughts hereare first it improve the allocation ofnatural resources meaning to saysince we have natural resources or wehave our resources therefore theallocation of this resourcesare well ba well been distributedor it has been distributed properlyamong not just in our country but to theworldlike for example are you familiar withthe coconuts that we are having here inour countrydid you know that our coconuts arealready oneof the biggest exported productsexported products around the worldbecausewe are not just trying to contain ourproducts here in the countrybut we are trying to um we are trying todeliver the best coconuts in ourbest coconuts around the world rightat leastokay next is to promotetechnology transfer what does it mean bytechnology transferwhen we are trying to discuss abouttechnology transferthis is where one technologyimproves the other technologiesfrom one country like for examplelet's go back to your agrarian agrarianwhen when other countriesdiscover that there are alternativesaside from your carabaos inin doing in doing the chores in yourfarmtherefore that it's what we call astechnology transfermeaning to say as they invented oneproduct they are to sharethey are to share and they are they letother countriestry their products try their products sothatwe could have a better life on itso that is what we call as technologytransferand lastly our thoughts about economicintegration is thatit enhanced the living standards ofevery countries and thus every peoplearound the world through economicintegrationit creates more jobs it createsit allocates natural resources which canbenefitnot just the host country but to theother country as a wholeso that's it that's economic integrationnow it economic integration there arefactors that affect economic integrationorfactors that results to us havingeconomic integration one of which isregional integration what does it meanby regional integrationnow we are trying to createorganizations that promoteboth political socialand economic cooperation anddevelopment among countries meaning tosayregional integration what is it in theoriginal integrationfrom one region since you're separatefrom one countriesyou are now merged as one organizationa very good example of the of thisis the asean or the association of southeast asian nations of which philippinesis one of the founding memberswho created asean asean is one oforganization that helps thathelp um philippines towards economicintegration becausethe goal of the cn is creating apoliticaland economic prosperity among countriesin asia or in south east asia anotherwhichis european union this are countriesfrom europecountries from europe integrate witheach other and createdone organization or one commoncooperativeand that is what they call as europeanunionand thus this is the leadingorganization around the globewhich has their own currency their owngovernment their own courts and manyothersthis is one of a very good example of aninternational organizationof which we will be discussing today onthe next succeeding topicsnext one is trade liberalizationwhen we are discussing tradeliberalization we have discussed earlierthat weare trying to eradicateerase and thus um removethe barriers that affect thetrading process of one country to theotherso that is what we call as tradeliberalization however thisthis does not mean that when we areliberating tradewe do not follow policies right we stillfollow policies and laws thatthe that countries um triedto create okay so that's tradeliberalizationnow foreign direct investmentwhat does it mean by foreign directinvestment thisare what we call as investorsthat is coming from a foreign landlike for example the build build buildprogram of the government yes we havethiswe have this program however we lackfinances on itso where do we look for financesfinances on itwe try to have a foreign directinvestmentwe try to look foreigners or countriesto investon our projects here in our countrythat's why in the build build buildprogram of the governmentchina is one of the leading investorsof this build build build projecthowevertheir investments is a sort of umdepths oranother example is on our corporationscorporations and umcorporations and organizations in thephilippinesthere are foreign direct investorsthat tried to build thisum corporations right becausecorporations cannot go along with justa oneman rule there are a lot ofinvestors in itright so investorsthat helped the corporations to growand expand more like for exampleyour jollibee jollity has foreign directinvestmentand one of the trending topics today isthe deto telecommunicationof which one of the foreign directinvestment that owns40 percent of the share of the detaildirect investment is a chinesechinese government or a chinese ownedfranchise of a telecommunication howeverbecause it is not allowedin the philippine laws that we exceedthat corporations should be ownedum six or fifty percent or beyondby a filipino filipino citizenall rightnext stop privatizationwhat does it mean by privatizationprivatization is one of the good exampleisare you familiar during the time ofmarcus of whichmeralco is owned by the governmenthowever after the martial lawand the government have suffered a lotdue to deathand um due to death and many financesmany finances therefore the governmentresultedto to sell to sell miracle to aprivate private entity and that is thelupustherefore that is what they call asprivatizationfrom a governmentowned institution orcorporation thereforeit was transferred or sold sold to aprivate entity so thatthe services that this corporation isrenderingwill will still continueall right that's privatization anotherexampleis one of the assumptions assumptionsand theories that we we are having todayis aboutfield health right field health istryingthey are trying to expose thecorruptions of field health thereforethis is now trying to lead to thedistrust of the agencythat the government can no longer handlethe corruption issues then thereforemaybe the government will result now toprivatization we need to sayour major health provider or majorhealth um agency in the country thathelpseveryone else isis now getting into into a scarewhich is privatizing field healthall right next stopis deregulation what does it mean by theregulationthe regulation means that there is alimited intervention of the governmenttowards the towards tradetowards businesses and towardscorporationsaround its sovereignty the regulationmean to saythat the government has limited nottotally nono no um not limitedit is not necessarily that thegovernmenthas has what we call asum intervention but it is limitedmeaning to saythe free will of the people will alsoprevail in creating new businessesright so that this is what we call asthe result of the regulation is a freemarketsystem all right that's the regulationwe need to saythere's no control of the there's nocontrol of the governmenttowards the private private corporationsbutthey are they are intervening when therearelaws that being violated um peoplebeing harmed by this corporations orthisorganization all right so those werejustfactors that that maylead to economic integrationall right now we have discussed economicintegrationin line with economic globalization wehave what we callas the barter trade system what does itrequire whatwhat do we mean by barter trade systemwhenwhen we are trying to to have bartertrade system it is anold method of exchanging of goodstake note that take note it's veryfamiliar for youbecause during the quarantine period weare experiencingwhat we call as barter trade system thatwe try to barterone good one one good to the other rightin an exchange of something like foryour louis vuitton you're just toexchange it with one ice creamwow so style this system has been usedfor centuries and long before money wasinvented take notewhen you are trying to to deal with thissystemthere's no money involved in it you'rejust exchanging one good to the othergoatsno money involved right people exchangeservices and goods for other servicesandgoods in return a very good example isthatin the philippines before we are wealready engagedduring the prehispanic during theprecolonial period of the philippineswe already engagedthis kind of system of which we engagedon our chinese and arabsof our gold our pearlsour um ourselves their silks in returnwith our pearls and jewelriesor even our arms to exchange on itso that's the water water trade systemthat's the long long before system thevery first systemthat was created that boosts theeconomiceconomic globalization not in thecontemporary worldbut the previous era and the ageof the world rightnow after afterum border trade system we alreadycreated the ideology of mercantilismwhat does it mean by the ideology ofmercantilismit means that it is an economic systemof trade after barter trade system wealready stated mercantilismof which of trade that spanned from 16thto 19th16th centuries 18th century mercantilismwas based on the ideathat the nation's wealth and power werebest servedby increasing exports and so involvesincreasing trade take notetake note the you cannot you will notbecomea rich country if you are notif you're ju if you will just containyour wealth within your schoolyou just you need to you need to spreadit outspread it out extend your bordersso that you could increase your wealthin that countrythat is why that's the idea ofmercantilismparticularly mercantilism tradingis very famili you're very familiar withif you're if we will go back to yourhistory you'll be familiarwith this illustration this is thetriangulartrading happened before of whichwe we already conducted tradesif this is the this is the northtriangular tradeof which we trade our ourresources resources take notes these arenot just natural resourcesbut this are resources because weinvolvepeople here that's why we involve slavesto the americas try let's try to to dealwith it let's try toconnect this triangular let's start fromafricaafrica has this textiles umafrica africa receives textilesrom manufactured goods to africaso therefore after which we trade nowslavesto america then after taking slavesthe slaves is in turn we america gavesugar tobacco and cotton to europethis are just triangular trade happeningto the world beforeso that's what we call as mercantilismthe increase of trade in the countryokay and trumanmercantilism through mercantilismwe also we also have to look on the goldstandardlater in our succeeding topics we willdiscusswhat is the gold standard but todaylet's have an introduction about goldstandardbefore gold was the basis of theexchangeof everything meaning to say theexchange beforemoney was before paper money waswas created gold was the standardthe the more gold that the country hasthat the country have therefore they arethe most richcountry in the most powerful country inthat timea gold standard is a monetary system inwhichthe standard economic unit of accountis based on a fixed quantity of goldon a specific country the gold standardhaswidely used in the 19th and early partof 20th centurybecause after the great depression ofamericathe late president franklin roosevelthaveturned gold standard into what we callasthe dollar standard meaning to say theexchange rate before wasgold therefore america changed it to adollarstandard that's why but in alamo when wetry to exchangeour dollars when we try to exchange onepesowe try to exchange it with dollars whynot in yenwhy not in but why notin euros because we have already agreedcountries have already agreed that wehave one exchangerate and that is dollar all rightafter gold standardnow herethus we have already know we alreadyknow the economiceconomic side of how the development ofthe economic globalizationthrough the years and tell thecontemporary worldwe have to understand of course theindusthe industry that evolves ushow this industry transformedfrom one from one in this from a onegreat factoryto what it is today industryhad become industrialized many manyyears agoso we have to discuss industrialrevolutiontransforming industries and innovationwhen we try to discuss industrialrevolutionthis is where we discuss abouthow how factories how corporationshow corporations how corporationschange through time so firstwe have to understand that itis on the industry 1.0that where during the 7 1784where mechanization steam powerand weaving loom was created you need tosaythat we already created factories toproducemore amounts of like for exampleour dairy products our products that isnecessary necessary for us beforehowever in 1870 it waschanged it was changed it becomesindustry 2.0 where there isalready a mass production anassembly line and electrical linewhere beams were already exchangedinto more high more more hightechtechnology because why there is alreadya high demand so therefore we have tocreatewe have to create more supplies on thehigh demand demand that's whywe created more factories onit however factories were alreadytransformedinto on the creation of many many moretechnologies that's why it happened herethe kind of revolt becausethat kind of what on work they losetheir jobs people try to lose their jobsbecausethey were what they were umthey werethey were um changed bymachines on this time and as time goesby we have nowindustry 3.0 where automationcomputers and electronics wherenapa and factory snaphowever the limitlessbecause industry 3.0 hasa lot of of um machine involvement whereit becomes more automated more automatedand computers are running onthe factory and thus on todaywe experience industry 4.0 wherewe're doing a cyber physical systemwhereinternet of things and networks of whichtodaywe experience now umin just a click of your hand you can nowalready turn on yourlights at home right nowbut just the click of your phoneautomatedby industry 5.0 we are nowwe are now replaced by robots ourindustry will now be replaced by robotsso we need to say works a factorythey will they will be no longer in thefactories because they will be replacedby robots so that's industry industrialrevolutionhow industry evolved or evolvedthrough time okaynow in understanding the structurewe should know that who arewe already know this is the structurethisis the structure but who are in thatstructurestructure globalizationwho are in the globalization there aretwopeople there are two people there aretwoplayers or actors take note playersand actors of globalization enjoying thestructurethey involved in here these are the twostructures take notethis are what we call as internationalorganizations and second islarge manufacturing corporationsor corporations alone what do we mean byinternational organizations it isdivided into threethe intergovernmental the supranationaland the nongovernmental internationalorganizations in large manufacturingcorporations we havemultinationals and trans nationalcorporation so what are these actorshow do they play in how do they play inthe globalizationor how they create the structureokay in the international organizationlet us try to discuss firstinternational organizationinternational organizations are what wecall asthe major players in nation stateor our countries or states it promotestake note of thisit promotes voluntary cooperation andcoordinationno one no one told these countries toengagebut this is voluntary cooperationit is divided into three theintergovernmentalorganization the supranationalorganizationsand nongovernmental organizations takenotewe could compare we could compareinternational organizationsin your schools or in our school in ourschool we havedifferent organizations like for exampleyou haveyour med tech town salethe pharmacy council the cba thebusiness accountancy councilthe accounting council the is counciland manyorganizations also in the internationalorganizations there areum divided into three differentorganizationsfirst is the intergovernmentalorganizationswhat does it mean by intergovernmentalorganizationsintergovernmental organizations is it iscomposed of nationstates that promote voluntarytake note of the word there voluntarycooperationcoordination among its membersit is composed of countries take note ofnation states these are countriesthat promote nation states are just apolitical term you may usecountries that promote voluntarycooperation and coordination among itsmemberslet's try to think that in the politicalglobalizationit happens their cooperation so thecooperationin the international in the contemporaryworld are voluntaryokaynow decisions and agreements that happenon this organizationare not enforceable meaning to sayyou may or you may not followthe you may not you may or you may notfollowthe orders and decisions of thisorganizationmembers do not surrender any sovereigntywhat does it mean by sovereigntyit means the independence andpower to control its people territoryum territory governmentand country so dirigina surrenders acountry inindependence and in organization rightso a very good example of thisorganizations are world tradeorganizationworld intellectual property organizationthe asian development bankthe international c bid authority okaylet's tryto look world trade organization worldtrade organizationare organizations which facilitates thetrading systemof the countries the world intellectualproperty organizationis where they try to patent or they trytoestablish an ownership of a specificintellectual property are you familiarwithare you familiar with the logos thelogos thatthat you could look like for mcdo andjollibee canthe logo and jollibee there is what theycall uscan a little circle there which is rr circle and an r or a circle with a cthat is what we call as meaning to saymeaning of that itis already owned by a specificentity meaning to say it is alreadyowned by a charlie bit is already owned by a it's alreadyowned by a bdono one is allowed to copy on it orotherwiseyou will be suedall right so that's the role of theworld intellectual property organizationthey protect your own property like forexample youif you become med tech or if you becomepharmacist or if you become abusinessmanif you discover something therefore youhave to register that one in the worldintellectual property organizationotherwise um others would copy itthen thereforeregister annaasian development bank this is a bankwhereum approved of loans countriesso there istherefore we need asian development bankfor itright international seabid authoritythis isthe authority that protects our seabedour oceans our seas the world healthorganization you're very familiar withit because worldworld health organization is anorganizationof which tackles diseases illnessesand health problems around the worldso they categorized like for examplethey categorize diseases and illnessof high of a high level ofdiseases okay so cyclobid neededmolecular orpandemic epidemic or justan outbreak so in an asia and we havealso the worldum the wildlife wealth fund worldwidefundwhich is it protects the animals and ourwildlifeso at leastnext is um african union this isthis is the same with this is like thesame withasean but african union isan organization organization ofdifferent countriesin africa but they are not enforceablemeaning to say unlike aseanand eu they are they are they areforced to to abide the decisions andagreements howeverum of african union can no longer notabide in itokay so that's intergovernmentalorganizations meaning to saycountries the exchange for the ideas andinformationanother international organization issupranational organization what does it meanby supranational organizationsthis is where it is composed of nationstates or countriesthat promote voluntary cooperation andcoordination among its membersit is the same with intergovernmentalorganizationhowever it surrender their powerin specific hair areas of higherorganizationbilitant powers but they surrendersome a little a little powersto this organization unlike withintergovernmental organizationssurrender and sovereignty of young powersupranational organization decisions andagreement must be obeyedcompared to intergovernmentaldelay in supranational organizationsit must be obeyed they have often courtsthe determined violations accordare you familiar a very good example isthe huawei are you familiar with huaweithe huawei senso letioswhich is an android that's whyhuawei today is not android poweredos that is what what we call as embargorightfor example philippinesso china therefore embargo nilatherefore we are being done with embargoa very good example of this is unitednations if you're familiar to going tocelebrate every octoberthat's the united nations all ofall of um the decisions and agreementsmust be obeyed in the united nationsrightum we have oecd we have internationallabor organizationswe have nato what does it mean by natothe north atlantic treaty organizationthis are these are countries in thenorththat creates policiesfor trade military and peace andsecurityprocesses we have also asean we havediscussed aseanwe have international monetary fund wewill discuss that one sooner in ourspeeding topicsand we have european unions this aresupranational organizationsnow moving forward with internationalinternational nongovernmentalorganization meaning to saythat it is not created by aninternational treaty or anintergovernmental agreement meaning tosaythe entity is not a government unlike ornota country take note of that it's not anation state not a country and not agovernmentit is solely created by people fromdifferent countries okay they oftenfocus onspecific issues around the world so likefor example the issue on hungerissue on hiv issue on human rightsthey are created on it it is not forprofit voluntary associationsin which projects are funded meaning tosay dirini silabut they are funded byphilanthropists or partially bygovernmentfunding sothey are funded by some people or someorganizationsokay so this are the examples we havethe amnesty international if you'refamiliar this is the best friend ofduterteamnesty international which is theytacklethe issue of human rights violationshappening andon a country iso if you're familiar withisointernational standard organization andwe have iccthe chamber of commerceand we have also the internationalchamber of commerce that's iccwe have icr or the internationalcommittee on red crosstake note the red cross is anongovernmentalorganization or it's commonly known asngosokay nowour last key player key playerin globalization is largemanufacturing corporations what do wemean by large manufacturing corporationsthis art corporations sell goodsand manufactured products to be usedall over the world take notethis corporations sell goods andmanufactured products to be used allover the worldthis are this is either multinationalcorporationsor transnational corporationswhat do we mean by multinationalcorporations or what they call aseminency it is what we call as theglobalcorporations an entity that ownsand controls production of goods orservicesin one or more countriesaside from their home origin countriestake note multinational corporationshavehome origin countriesthese are the features of mncmultinational companiesown a home home company and itssubsidiariesmultinational corporations or companieshave centralized management systemmeaning to say centralized managedsystemand multinational companies will face abarrierin decision making due to itscentralizedmanagement system try to look at it onthe greenpart on the green part try to look atthe map aboveon the green part on the green part asyou can seeit is what we call as the home or regionof the multinational corporation andit has subsidiariesbranches businesses nashe branches whichis the orangehowever they have centralized managementsystem like for examplecommodity home companiessubsidiariesthat is what what they call acentralized management systemthey will have the hard time to havedecision making becauseif there is a problem if there is aproblemon the one branch it will be resolvedon the main branch like for examplethere is a problem in the philippinesthereforethe philippines cannot the philippinebranch cannotdecide because they have to go to theu.sbranch so that so thatthe u.s branch could decideokay a very good example of itis these products these aremultinational corporationthe procter and gamble your shampoostake note your shampoos the nestleyour nido your nestle the 7eleventhe very popular 7eleven which is7eleven the mushroomsmall corporation pero 711 is a verybooming industry whybecause you have to try to look at it at7elevenit's booming all around they areemerging like mushrooms everywheremushrooms everywhere then people aregoing to 7eleven because 7eleven is aonestopshop where you can find everything rightyou could buybullpen you could buy papers you couldbuy floor walks you could buyeverything in seven eleven a smalllike it's a paso sal nasari sari storeright seven eleven it's emerging likefor examplesoeleven try to look at it they'rethey're they're booming they are likemushroomshas considered that factor but they arebooming todayright next is the jollibee your favoriteshall i be the filipino owned food chainthat controlled the world todaythe burgers that you are using try tolook at itthe burgers that you are using theburgers that you are eatingfrom mcdo is the supplier of yourburgers that you're eating in mcdo isjollibeebefore will have an activity sooner asannouncedyou will know that the world before wasconsidered asmacdonification meaning to say has ruledthe world the fast food chain was ruledis now the leading company around theworldand next up is the cocacolain a calabani cocacola is a pepsi rightso multinational corporationsof course karon si apple the themacbooks and everything i watchgatankilita we had fedex right this is amultinational corporationsumfilipino filipino fedex clbcand we have microsoft the volkswagenas the leading and of course sony as oneof the multinational corporationsnow let's try to compare what'smultinational corporationscompared to tnc or transnationalcorporationstransnational corporations arecommercialenterprise that operatessubstantial facilities that does notthat does business in one morein more than one country compared totiencompared to evan and c or multinationalcorporationswallacey homeorigin country so try to look on thefeaturestransnational companies do not havesubsidiariesbut just have many companies meaning tosaytry to look on the map well i see a homeorigin caton greenbut the guns yet branches around theworldtransnational companies do not havecentralizedmanagement system meaning to saydecisionsistransnational companies are able to gainmore interestin the local market scenes since theymaintain their ownsystem sookay but the same product but they couldlike for examplethe philippines branch isbecause it's a transnational corporationthey have their own management systemindividualisticokayyou're toyota you're ford you're walmartcan you say walmartis the snractually see walmart we haveglaxosmith clean which iskanemu mahatambal and of course yourstarbucksstarbucks because it's differentfrom one branch to the other branchokay i guess that would be allfor today and i hope youlearned something with our discussionaboutthe structures of globalizationspecificallyon the global economy or economicglobalizationGio Treb V. Rivera Contemporary WorldBSMT2BI. Structures of Globalization1. Global EconomyGlobal economy is the exchange of goods and services integrated into a huge singleglobal market. It is virtually a world without borders, inhabited by marketing individualsand/or companies who have joined the geographical world with the intent of conductingresearch and development and making sales.International  trade  permits  countries  to  specialize  in  the  resources  they  have.Countries benefit by producing goods and services they can provide most cheaply andby  buying  the  goods  and  services  other  countries  can  provide  most  cheaply.International trade  makes it possible  for  more  goods to  be  produced  and  for morehuman wants to be satisfied than if every country tries by itself to produce everything itneeds.2. Market Integration3. According  to  the  Cambridge  Business  English  Dictionary,  Market  Integration  is4. a situation  in  which separate  markets for  the  same product become  one single  market,5. for example when an import tax in one of the market is removed.6.  Integration is taken to denote a state of affairs or a process involving attempts to combine7. separate national economies into larger economic regions (Robson, 1998, p.1)According  to  the  Cambridge  Business  English  Dictionary, Market  Integrationis a situation  in  which separate  markets for  the  same product become  one singlemarket, for example when an import tax in one of the markets is removed. Integration istaken to denote a state of affairs or a process involving attempts to combine separatenational economies into larger economic regions (Robson, 1998, p.1)3. Global Interstates SystemOnly the modern worldsystem has become a global (Earthwide) system composedof  national  societies  and  their  states.  It  is  a  single  global  economy  composed  ofinternational trade and capital flows, transnational corporations that produce productson  several  continents,  as  well  as  all  the  economic  transactions  that  occur withincountries and at local levels. The whole worldsystem is more than just internationalrelations. It is the whole system of human interactions. The world economy is now allthe economic interactions of all the people on Earth, not just international trade andinvestment.The modern worldsystem is structured politically as an interstate system – a systemof competing and allying states. Political Scientists commonly call this the internationalsystem, and it is the main focus of the field of International Relations. Some of thesestates are much more powerful than others, but the main organizational feature of theGio Treb V. Rivera Contemporary WorldBSMT2Bworld political system is that it is multicentric. There is, as yet, no world state. Ratherthere is a system of states. This is a fundamentally important feature of the modernsystem and of earlier regional worldsystems as well. When we compare different kinds of worldsystems it is important to use conceptsthat are applicable to all of them. “Polity” is a general term that means any organizationwith a single authority that claims control over a territory or a group of people. Politiesinclude bands, tribes and chiefdoms as well as states and empires. All worldsystemsare  composed  of  multiple  interacting  polities.  Thus,  we  can  fruitfully  compare  themodern interstate system with earlier interpolity systems in which there were tribes orchiefdoms, but no states. So, the modern worldsystem is now a global economy with a global political system(the modern interstate system). It also includes all the cultural aspects and interactionnetworks  of  the  human  population  of  the  Earth.  Culturally  the  modern  system  iscomposed  of:  several  civilizational  traditions,  (e.g.  Islam,  Christendom,  Hinduism,Confucianism,  etc.),  nationallydefined  cultural  entities    nations  (and  these  arecomposed of class and functional subcultures, e.g. lawyers, technocrats, bureaucrats,etc.),  and the  cultures  of  indigenous  and  minority  ethnic  groups  within  states.  Themodern  system  is  multicultural  in  the  sense  that  important  political  and  economicinteraction networks connect people who have rather different languages, religions andother cultural aspects. Earlier worldsystems have also been multicultural.4. Contemporary Global GovernanceGlobal  governance  as  a  subject  field  entails  an  interdisciplinary  examination  ofpower and authority in the global arena and examines the variety of actors, institutions,ideas,  rules,  and  processes  that  contribute  to  the  management  of  global  society,exploring their origins, their evolving roles, as well as their political, economic, social,environmental,  and  ethical  consequences.  In  addition  to  considering  internationalorganizations  and  interstate  interactions,  global  governance  gives  critical  focus  tovarious  nonstate  actors,  formal  and  informal  networks,  and  broader  transnational,supranational, and subnational realities of contemporary life that increasingly contributeto the establishment and functioning of global rules, norms and institutions.The  study  of  global  governance  is  a  rapidly  growing  interdisciplinary  field  ofresearch  where  scholars  and  practitioners  from  various  academic  and  professionalbackgrounds come together  to  focus on  governance  issues  relating to fundamentalproblems in  global  affairs.  In  this  field,  policyrelevant  research  and  teaching aboutproblems of global governance go beyond the rigidities and formalities of establisheddisciplinary  boundaries  to  be  effective.  Global  governance  issues  are  sufficientlycomplex  that  an  interdisciplinary  approach  to  their  study  is  necessary.  Our  Globalgovernance issues are complex, which demands an interdisciplinary approach. Thisinterdisciplinary program is designed to meet these needs.Gio Treb V. Rivera Contemporary WorldBSMT2BII. A world of Regions1. The global divides; north and south(on next page)2. Asian regionalismAsian regionalism is the product of economic interaction, not political planning. As aresult of successful, outward oriented growth strategies, Asian economies have grownnot only richer, but also closer together. In recent years, new technological trends havefurther strengthened ties among them, as have the rise of the PRC and India and theregion’s growing weight in the global economy. But adversity also played a role. The1997/98 financial crisis dealt a severe setback to much of the region, highlighting Asia’sshared  interests  and  common  vulnerabilities  and  providing  an  impetus  for  regionalcooperation. The challenge now facing Asia’s policy makers is simply put yet incrediblycomplex: Where markets have led, how should governments follow?In the early stages of Asia’s economic takeoff, regional integration proceeded slowly.East Asian economies, in particular, focused on exporting to developed country marketsrather than  selling  to  each  other.  Initially, they  specialized in  simple, laborintensivemanufactures. As the more advanced among them graduated to more sophisticatedproducts, less developed economies filled the gap that they left behind. The Japaneseeconomist Akamatsu (1962) famously compared this pattern of development to flyinggeese. In this model, economies moved in formation not because they were directlylinked to each other, but because they followed similar paths. Since these developmentpaths hinged on sequential—and sometimes competing—ties to markets outside theregion, they did not initially yield strong economic links within Asia itself.SNow,  though, Asian  economies  are  becoming  closely  intertwined.  This  is  notbecause  the  region’s  development  strategy  has  changed;  it  remains  predominantlynondiscriminatory  and  outwardoriented.  Rather,  interdependence  is  deepeningbecause  Asia’s  economies  have  grown  large  and  prosperous  enough  to  becomeimportant to each other, and because their patterns of production increasingly depend.ReferencesAsia Development bank (2008). Emerging Asian Regionalism Retrieved from: https://aric.adb.org/emergingasianregionalism/pdfs/Final_ear_chapters/chapter%202.pdfGio Treb V. Rivera Contemporary WorldBSMT2BDunn, CC. (2014). IROWS86. Retrieved from: https://irows.ucr.edu/papers/irows86/irows86.htmMaxwell, G. "Global Economy ." Encyclopedia of Business and Finance, 2nd ed. . . RetrievedJanuary 23, 2020 from Encyclopedia.com: https://www.encyclopedia.com/finance/financeandaccountingmagazines/globaleconomy “What is Global governance?” Retrieved from: https://www.balsillieschool.ca/faqitems/whatisglobalgovernance/THE GLOBAL ECONOMYThe global economy has changed significantly over the past few decades, in the way that it is organised and governed by collaborating nations. These changes have repercussions that not only affect the flow of goods and services between countries, but also the movement of people. As we’ve seen on occasions over the last century, too great a fluctuation in this international economic system can lead to a global economic crisis.So what exactly is the global economy, how does it function, and how does it affect our lives? Here we take a closer look to help you understand the complexities of the force that governs the modern world!What is a global economy?The global economy refers to the interconnected worldwide economic activities that take place between multiple countries. These economic activities can have either a positive or negative impact on the countries involved.The global economy comprises several characteristics, such as:Globalisation: Globalisation describes a process by which national and regional economies, societies, and cultures have become integrated through the global network of trade, communication, immigration, and transportation. These developments led to the advent of the global economy. Due to the global economy and globalisation, domestic economies have become cohesive, leading to an improvement in their performances.International trade: International trade is considered to be an impact of globalisation. It refers to the exchange of goods and services between different countries, and it has also helped countries to specialise in products which they have a comparative advantage in. This is an economic theory that refers to an economy's ability to produce goods and services at a lower opportunity cost than its trade partners.International finance: Money can be transferred at a faster rate between countries compared to goods, services, and people; making international finance one of the primary features of a global economy. International finance consists of topics like currency exchange rates and monetary policy.Global investment: This refers to an investment strategy that is not constrained by geographical boundaries. Global investment mainly takes place via foreign direct investment (FDI).Why is the global economy important?We can understand the importance of the global economy by looking at it in relation to emerging markets:Economic importance at a micro and macro level: The increase in the world’s population has led to emerging markets growing economically, making them one of the primary engines of world economic growth. The growth and resilience shown by emerging markets is a good sign for the world economy. Before delving into the next point, you need to understand the concept of microeconomics. It refers to the study of the behaviour of households, individuals, and firms with respect to the allocation of resources and decisionmaking. In simpler terms, this branch of economics studies how people make decisions, what factors affect their decisions, and how these decisions affect the price, demand, and supply of goods in the market. Therefore, from the perspective of microeconomics, some of the largest firms with high market value and a few of the richest individuals in the world hail from these emerging markets, which has helped in the higher distribution of income in these countries. However, many of these emerging countries are still plagued by poverty, and work still needs to be done to work towards eradicating it.Longterm world economic outlook: According to financial and economic projections based on demographic trends and capital productivity models, the GDP in emerging market economies in 2019 are likely to keep increasing at a positive rate. According to an emerging markets economic forecast for 2019 conducted by Focus Economics, the economy is set to increase by 7.5% in India, 6.6% in Philippines, 6.3% in China, 5.3% in Indonesia, 5.1% in Egypt, 4.9% in Malaysia, 3.8% in Peru and 3.7% in Morocco.Who controls the global economy?Many people think that the global economy is controlled by governments of the largest economies in the world, but this a common misconception. Although governments do hold power over countries’ economies, it is the big banks and large corporations that control and essentially fund these governments. This means that the global economy is dominated by large financial institutions. According to world economic news, US banks participate in many traditional government businesses like power production, oil refining and distribution, and also the operating of public assets such as airports and train stations. This was proven when certain members of the US Congress sent a letter to the Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. Here’s an excerpt from the letter:“Here are a few examples. Morgan Stanley imported 4 million barrels of oil and petroleum products into the United States in June, 2012. Goldman Sachs stores aluminium in vast warehouses in Detroit as well as serving as a commodities derivatives dealer. This “bank” is also expanding into the ownership and operation of airports, toll roads, and ports. JP Morgan markets electricity in California.In other words, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley are no longer just banks – they have effectively become oil companies, port and airport operators, commodities dealers, and electric utilities as well.”How does the global economy work?The functioning of the global economy can be explained through one word —transactions. International transactions taking place between top economies in the world help in the continuance of the global economy. These transactions mainly comprise trade taking place between different countries. International trade includes the exchange of a variety of products between countries. It ranges all the way from fruits and foods, to natural oil and weapons. Such transactions have a number of benefits including:Providing a foundation for worldwide economic growth, with the international economy set to grow by 4% in 2019 (source: World Trade Organisation);Encouraging competitiveness between countries in various markets;Raising productivity and efficiency across countries;Helping in the development of underdeveloped countries by allowing them to import capital goods (machinery and industrial raw materials) and export primary goods (natural resources and raw materials).What are the effects of global economy?Nearly every country in the world is in some way affected by things that happen in what may seem at times, like unrelated countries  due to the influence of the global economy. A good example of this is the economic impact that the Brexit vote will have other countries, not only in Europe, but across the globe. Brexit was referendum decision for the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union (EU).The main cause of these effects is economics — based on the production and exchange of goods and services. Restrictions on the import and export of goods and services can potentially hamper the economic stability of countries who choose to impose too many.The purpose of international trade is similar to that of trading within a country. However, international trade differs from domestic trade in two aspects:The currencies of at least two countries are involved in international trade, so they must be exchanged before goods and services can be exported or imported;Occasionally, countries enforce barriers on the international trade of certain goods or services which can disrupt the relations between two countries.Countries usually specialise in those products that they can produce efficiently, which helps in reducing overall manufacturing costs. Then, countries trade these products with other countries, whose product specialisation is something else altogether. Having greater specialisation helps countries take advantage of economies of scale. Economies of scale refer to the proportionate saving in costs gained by an increased level of production. Manufacturers in these countries can focus all their efforts on building factories for specialised production, instead of spending additional money on the production of various types of goods.Occasionally countries add barriers to international trade. Some of these barriers include trade tariffs (taxes on imports) and trade quotas (limitation on the number of products that can be imported into a country). Trade barriers often affect the economies of the trading countries, and in the long run, it becomes difficult to keep employing such barriers.What are the benefits of global economy?There are numerous benefits of a global economy, which include:Free trade: Free trade is an excellent method for countries to exchange goods and services. It also allows countries to specialise in the production of those goods in which they have a comparative advantage.Movement of labour: Increased migration of the labour force is advantageous for the recipient country as well as for the workers. If a country is going through a phase of high unemployment, workers can look for jobs in other countries. This also helps in reducing geographical inequality.Increased economies of scale: The specialisation of goods production in most countries has led to advantageous economic factors such as lower average costs and lower prices for customers.Increased investment: Due to the presence of global economy, it has become easier for countries to attract shortterm and longterm investment. Investments in developing countries go a long way in improving their economies.Factors affecting global economyAccording to the latest economic news, here are some of the key factors that influence and affect how well the global economy works:Natural resources;Infrastructure;Population;Labour;Human capital;Technology;Law.Global Economic Growth Slows Amid Gloomy and More Uncertain OutlookThe world’s three largest economies are stalling, with important consequences for the global outlook. Inflation is a major concern. PierreOlivier GourinchasJuly 26, 2022The global economy, still reeling from the pandemic and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, is facing an increasingly gloomy and uncertain outlook. Many of the downside risks flagged in our April World Economic Outlook have begun to materialize.Higherthanexpected inflation, especially in the United States and major European economies, is triggering a tightening of global financial conditions. China’s slowdown has been worse than anticipated amid COVID19 outbreaks and lockdowns, and there have been further negative spillovers from the war in Ukraine. As a result, global output contracted in the second quarter of this year.Under our baseline forecast, growth slows from last year’s 6.1 percent to 3.2 percent this year and 2.9 percent next year, downgrades of 0.4 and 0.7 percentage points from April. This reflects stalling growth in the world’s three largest economies—the United States, China and the euro area—with important consequences for the global outlook.In the United States, reduced household purchasing power and tighter monetary policy will drive growth down to 2.3 percent this year and 1 percent next year. In China, further lockdowns, and the deepening real estate crisis pushed growth down to 3.3 percent this year—the slowest in more than four decades, excluding the pandemic. And in the euro area, growth is revised down to 2.6 percent this year and 1.2 percent in 2023, reflecting spillovers from the war in Ukraine and tighter monetary policy.Despite slowing activity, global inflation has been revised up, in part due to rising food and energy prices. Inflation this year is anticipated to reach 6.6 percent in advanced economies and 9.5 percent in emerging market and developing economies—upward revisions of 0.9 and 0.8 percentage points respectively—and is projected to remain elevated longer. Inflation has also broadened in many economies, reflecting the impact of cost pressures from disrupted supply chains and historically tight labor markets.The risks to the outlook are overwhelmingly tilted to the downside:The war in Ukraine could lead to a sudden stop of European gas flows from RussiaInflation could remain stubbornly high if labor markets remain overly tight or inflation expectations deanchor, or disinflation proves more costly than expectedTighter global financial conditions could induce a surge in debt distress in emerging market and developing economiesRenewed COVID19 outbreaks and lockdowns might further suppress China’s growthRising food and energy prices could cause widespread food insecurity and social unrestGeopolitical fragmentation might impede global trade and cooperation.In a plausible alternative scenario where some of these risks materialize, including a full shutdown of Russian gas flows to Europe, inflation will rise and global growth decelerate further to about 2.6 percent this year and 2 percent next year—a pace that growth has fallen below just five times since 1970. Under this scenario, both the United States and the euro area experience nearzero growth next year, with negative knockon effects for the rest of the world.Policy prioritiesInflation at current levels represents a clear risk for current and future macroeconomic stability and bringing it back to central bank targets should be the top priority for policymakers. In response to incoming data, central banks of major advanced economies are withdrawing monetary support faster than we expected in April, while many in emerging market and developing economies had already started raising interest rates last year.The resulting synchronized monetary tightening across countries is historically unprecedented, and its effects are expected to bite, with global growth slowing next year and inflation decelerating. Tighter monetary policy will inevitably have real economic costs, but delaying it will only exacerbate the hardship. Central banks that have started tightening should stay the course until inflation is tamed.Targeted fiscal support can help cushion the impact on the most vulnerable. But with government budgets stretched by the pandemic and the need for an overall disinflationary macroeconomic policy stance, offsetting targeted support with higher taxes or lower government spending will ensure that fiscal policy does not make the job of monetary policy even harder.As advanced economies raise interest rates to fight inflation, financial conditions are tightening, especially for their emergingmarket counterparts. Countries must appropriately use macroprudential tools to safeguard financial stability. Where flexible exchange rates are insufficient to absorb external shocks, policymakers will need to be ready to implement foreign exchange interventions or capital flow management measures in a crisis scenario.Such challenges come at a time when many countries lack fiscal space, with the share of lowincome countries in or at high risk of debt distress at 60 percent, up from about 20 percent a decade ago. Higher borrowing costs, diminished credit flows, a stronger dollar and weaker growth will push even more into distress.Debtresolution mechanisms remain slow and unpredictable, hampered by difficulties in obtaining coordinated agreements from diverse creditors over their competing claims. Recent progress in implementing the Group of Twenty’s Common Framework is encouraging, but further improvements are still urgently needed.Domestic policies to address the impacts of high energy and food prices should focus on those most affected without distorting prices. Governments should refrain from hoarding food and energy and instead look to unwind barriers to trade such as food export bans, which drive world prices higher. As the pandemic continues, governments must step up vaccination campaigns, resolve vaccine distribution bottlenecks and ensure equitable access to treatment.Finally, mitigating climate change continues to require prompt multilateral action to limit emissions and raise investment to hasten the green transition. The war in Ukraine and soaring energy prices have put pressure on governments to turn to fossil fuels such as coal as a stopgap measure. Policymakers and regulators should ensure such measures are temporary and only cover energy shortfalls, not increase emissions overall. Credible and comprehensive climate policies to increase green energy supply should be accelerated urgently. The energy crisis also illustrates how a policy of clean, green energy independence can be compatible with national security objectives.The outlook has darkened significantly since April. The world may soon be teetering on the edge of a global recession, only two years after the last one. Multilateral cooperation will be key in many areas, from climate transition and pandemic preparedness to food security and debt distress. Amid great challenge and strife, strengthening cooperation remains the best way to improve economic prospects and mitigate the risk of geoeconomic fragmentation.hello have a great day everyone welcometo another session of uh lectures incontemporary worldthis time we are talking about globaleconomybefore we proceed to our discussion andlectures on the global economy uh we'dlike to thank you everyone for followingme in our serious discussion forcontemporary world soplease don't forget to subscribe thischannel if this is your first time don'tforget to hitthesubscribe button below and of course ifyou want tohave more knowledge and informationabout lectures and globalization andcontemporary world don't forget to clickthenotification bell for you to be updatedof our future videos in relation tocontemporary work so this day we aregoing to talk about globalizationso we talk about globalization we aretalking the globalizationwhen we talk about world economics it'salso called to become uh it is alsocalledthe the world economy okayso here comes our presentation of theglobal economyso what comes to your mind when you hearthe word global economy so there arequestions that you need to answer mydear students when we are going todiscuss about global economy there arethree questions that you need to answeruh the questions are therein between of this lecture video okay soum please watch the entire video becausethere will be some questions to be givenmaybe in the beginning in the middle andat the end of thelectureokay so our questions will be givenright now and you need to answer thatone in our comment section okay ourfirst question goes like this no whatcomes to your mind when you hear theword globalizationuh global economy by anyway rather whatcomes to your mind when you hear theword global economyso there is a picture there that youneed also to analyze that will help youto understand what is global economy allabout so that's our first questionso when you hear the word global economyit involves world economicsokayso global economy refersor also referred to world economyrefers to international exchange ofgoods and services so as we start ourfirst lesson on the introduction to thestudy of globalization we haveuh defined already what is globalizationbut when you talk about global economyit has a specific description ordefinition when it comes to globaleconomy because when you talk aboutglobalization it also involves peopleculture technologyand the rest but when we refer only toglobal economy itemphasizes on the tradewe also have the investment businessesand the exchange of goods and servicesinternationally it may also mean as thefree movement of our goods capitalservices technology and information sobasically when we talk about globaleconomy it involves trade transportationand communication to repeat uh we havetrading we also have the transportationand the communication so meaning to saythere is a picture here now talkingabout the services that we offer fromone country to another country no thatis also called a part of the globaleconomyso what is global economy yeah so thisdefinition will help us understand whatis globalso the global economy refers totheinterconnected worldwide economicactivity so every country in the worldare interconnected with it with it withits global economic activities that willtake place between multiple countriesthis economy activities can have eithera positive and could also have anegative impact on different countriesinvolvedso before we elaborateon to the global economy let's startfirst uh the two types of economies sonumber one is protection andprotectionism and the second one istrade liberalization or the free tradeno then the word liberalization refersto free free trade most of the countriesin the world uh anchored oradhered to this kind of kind of ofeconomy the trade really liberalizationor the free trade so let's start withthe protectionism what is protectionismall about the word itself protect youknow a certain country protect itseconomy and there is a less connectionwith other countries protecting oneeconomy from foreign competition bycreating trade buyers so there is a barhere you know they don't let othercountries to conduct tradeor delay or delimit the transaction thetrading between other countries andamong other countriessouh one good example of this is uhnorth uh north korea which we can seetheir their form of government theireconomic formuh the economic uhplatform is not using the free tradethey protect their owncountry with other countries so theycould not easily uh other countriescould not easily conduct trade with withtheir own country like north korea butthere are also other countries beforethose that would like to protect theirown business their own uh products andservices that they would likethatown country that their own economy willbe preserver by their own you know weneed to say like examplecanada so canada before they have theyhavethis kind of setup of economy noprotectionism some of their products forexample their dairy products nouh they have ahigh tarifftaxso that is what they call uh tradebarriers so that other countries couldnot trade could not export or import tothat certain country so if there is hightariff tariff is a tax that you're goingto pay when you conduct trade with othercountriessouh the other hand we have the tradeliberalization or the free trade itreduces the trade barriers no there isno uh or the trade bloc or barriers tomake international trade easier betweencountries so most of the countries as isaid in the world are adhering to thiskind of ofuh economy which they involve engagethem their their country to othercountries with less restriction lessbarriers so that they could have a freetrade with other countries so forexample as i said earlier canadafrom being protectionist country beinguh for having a protectionism the formof economyuh tradesso again these are the two types ofeconomies when we talk about globaleconomy so protectionism most of thecountry uh if you if your country is acommunist country like north korea theyare using this kind of economy no thereis lessless trading that happen because thereis a hightrade barriers no protect they protecttheir own economy from foreigncompetitionokay so if there is a target no a tariffis a tax that they are going to paysouh if there is a high tariff tax thatthey uh if a country would like toengage with a uh trading if the targetis very high of course that could be uhtrade barriers becausethe price not the tax that beingimposed to that kind of product no theprice of that will be doubled orwill have a high price because of of theimpact of the tax to that certainproduct but if there is a less tarifftariff tax to that kind of product whenit will beexported to other countries so possiblythat thatprice of that product will not go higheruhphilippinesfree tradesothat's uh the two format of economy ofglobal economysoglobal economy is also called economicglobalization it is concerned withglobalization of productionfinanceuh economic flow monetary flow marketstechnologyorganizational regimes and institutionsso we have different organizationinternational organizations whichinvolve to economic activitiesnow corporation we have alsomultinational corporations companies andlaborsothat also part of the economicglobalization or global economy thoseinternational organization is afinancial institutionuh production of different products andservicesit is also uh it is expanding since theemergence of transnational trade souhdue toincreased rate of communication andtechnologyanother thing the creation of worldtrade no ambassador starting previousdiscussion uh prior to what we haveright now the kind of tradings that weexperienceuh before we already engage ourourselves our country to different uhcountries who conducted trade evenduring the time of colonization now whenthe philippines was colonized byuh spain we have conducted two othercolonies of spainlike mexicoof trading that's what we call thegallium trade or the manilaso how much more today because of theexpansion and emergence of transnationaltrade it also increases the potential ofthe increased rate of communication andtechnology we can easilycommunicate to one country to anothercountry so we can make an access totrading a high rate of access to tradingbecause also of the increase ofcommunication and technologyokayso part of of the global economy ismarketwhere itself integrate noso prices among different locations orrelated goods follow the same patternover a long period of time the marketintegration existswhen group of prices often moveproportionally to each other and whenthis relation is very clear amongdifferent markets the market isintegratedthe market integration is an indicatorhow much different markets are relatedtoeach otherso here comes the rule of internationalfinancial institutions in the creationof global economywhat are these ifi the internationalfinancial institution so internationalfinancial institutions are characteredby more than one country thereforesubject to international law so eachcountry involved to this who are part ofthe international financial institutionmust be subject to internationalagreements and lawthe owners or the stakeholders orshareholders and generally nationalgovernments of coursewhen one country is going to involve orengage their government to anothergovernment the international treatiesfor the international agreementthe the the main state actors are thegovernment you know the government ofeach country all the other internationalinstitutions and other organizationsoccasionally figure as a shareholdermost of the professor frommost of the prominent ifiare creations of multi multiple nationalor multiple nations although somebilateral financial institutions createdby twoexists are technically internationalfinancial institutions sothis financial institution would be agreat help to improve the economy of acertain country because we can borrowmonies for our investments forfor reconstruction of someuhdue to calamities like our country youknow we really rely to this financialinstitution uh international financialinstitution that will let us borrowmoneytofor our loans not to supply our needsourgovernment servicessothe international basic financialinstitutions are example so we have theinternational monetary fundso we we all know what is imf now thiswas created due touh the briton good system or the brittlemood agreement after the world war ii aseries of war you know and we have alsothe multideveloped multilateraldevelopment banks which include theworld bank the african development bankthe asian development bankinteramerican development bank europeanbank for construction and developmentso these are also called regionaldevelopment banks not even in our uh inuh the philippines are part of this nowuh some of regional development parkslikeasian development but philippines ispart of thatso how to become part of this uhinternational financial institutionmembership compositiononly sovereign countries are admitted asa member of member owner so what is thissovereign country so this separatecountry meaning this our state or nationwhich is not under control by otherother nations so they are a free countryno meaning to say theyno one controls their country they havetheir freedom like our country is asovereign state sovereign countryborough broad country members membershipto include the borrowing developingcountries and develop donor countries soour country belongs to developingcountries nowwe are no longer underdeveloped but weare in the average developing countriesuh these developed countries like uscanada japan russiathey are considered also as a donorcountries no they are a good example ofdonor countries to our country you knowphilippines when there are somecalamities somemembership individual development plansinclude colors around the world asmembers now even though uh you are notpart of that region other countrieswould also be part of it of thatregionalregional development plans it has itsown the independent legal andoperational statesso whatare the objectives of this internationalfinancial institutionor the international monetary fund soone ofuh imf provides temporary financialassistance to member countries to helpease balance of payments adjustment soloans not to reconstruct loans no no wehave the longterm loans with withmaturities of up to 20 years sophilippines have a high credit limitbecauseof the case that we can still pay ourdebts to this internationaluh international financial institutionbecause this international financialinstitution will not let us borrow moneyif we could have if we don't have thecapacity to pay you know so it's stillpart of our general procession act or inour national budget uh part of thegeneral part of the national budget ofour country is the payment of our debtnoso these are the example of financingfinancema thethe different uhterms of payment of our loans no we havethe longterm loans with maturities upto 20 years sointerest rate maybe a lot maybe belowmarket rates funding comes frominternational capital markets and relentto borrowing government in developingcountries like our country we can availthe longterm loans from theinternational monetary fund the worldbank the asian development bank as weare a member of that you knowwe also have this very longterm loansso 30 to 40 yearsso grant financing by some of thisfinancial institution for technicalassistance advisory service or projectpreparationso we have another term here globalcorporation so the global corporation isone that operates in more than onecountry it is also all themultinational corporationsnow uh we have some discussion alreadyabout the mnc for the multinationalcorporationno according to michael porter defineglobal businesses as one that maintainsa strong headquarters in oneinvestment in multiple foreign locationsso example of this are internationalcompanies that we have here in ourcountryokay so but it doesn't mean that you area multi uh you areyou are selling your productfrom uh here to europe you are already amulti cup multinational corporation orcompany but before you could have thatlabel as a multinational corporation youneed to introduce your company to thatkind through the outside your countrylike what we have the automobileindustries the telecommunicationindustriesnowe have the different companies thefoods thefood the food chains you know theinternational food chains the differentfranchising companies that we have herein our country arealso part of the global cooperation ofthe multinational corporationthese are also called internationalcompanies that has headquarters forexample in the united states but alsodoes businesses overseas and might havea large presence in multiple areas suchas for example as i have i give you theexample ofof this convenience for like the7eleven that was originated in theunited states they could have also theyare their presence in other countriesare there alreadythese are example of company which hasperformed business overseasokayso that's all about the the globaleconomysoto continue our discussion nowe talk about again another topic aboutglobal uh economyokay so let's go back again to thisdiscussion that we have this is just asort of review of what we have discussedthe globalization of worldeconomics sowe have defined several times aboutglobal economic globalizationimf defined uhdefined economic globalization as acircle process representing the resultof human innovationtechnological progress it ischaracterized by the increasingintegration of economies around theworldthis is also involves as i said abouttrading exchange of products andservices and capital across bordersthese changes are the products of peopleorganization institutions andtechnologiessowe have what we call the internationaltrading system you knowthese are not newthis had been into our history in theancient timesthere was already international tradingsystem and the oldest knowninternational trade growth that we haveis the self growth this silk roaduh this was initiated by the chineseduring their diagnosis during their theprogress of their civilization they haveconnected their business their productsto european and some other middle eastcountries so what is this silk road itis a network of patois in ancient worldthat span from china to what is now themiddle east and europeso they have done a business tradingbecause this is the tradition andculture of the chinese they are fun tofund intothey are really into business andtrading so however while thesub growth was international it was nottruly global because it had no oceanroads that could reach americancontinents oh it has a limit no only ineurope and middle eastokay so even in the past we haveexchanged our products now all importantpopulated contents began to changeproductcontinuously vote with each otherdirectly and indirectly the good exampleof that is the galleon tradeyou know that was uh yeahthat galleon tradewas the main source of income of ofspain during the spanish colonization tophilippines and mexicoand of courseduring the spanish colonization the mainreason is to propagate christianity tolook for gold and of course to becomemore powerfulandthat time during the galleon trade theform of economyismercantilism which is the basis of thewealth of a certain country is their owngold reservesokayso the systemall based on the value of gold that iswhat they callmercantilismokay so going to the briton woods systemsothis is one example of opinion of aninternational village organization thatwas created after the second world warno uh this uh after after the first andsecond world warworld leader so to create globaleconomic system so that there will beorganized system of global economy thisbritain would know that this was uhinitiated in the united statesthat would ensure a longer lastingglobal peace they believe that one ofthe ways to achieve this goal was to setup a network of global financialinstitutions so that is our discussionearlier you know we talked about theumthe global corporate uh the globaleconomy you know that's what we callumthe international financial institutionso one of that good exam that is a goodexampleofof umglobal financial institution that britonwould sistersoin the britainwood system the imf or theinternational monetary fund and theworld bankwas created that is because of thiswritten goods system okay they believethat one of the ways to achieve thisgoal was to set up global network anetwork of global financial institutionsthat would promote economicinterdependence and prosperityso in 1944 the britainwood system wasinauguratedduring the united nations monetary andfinancial corporate conference this isto prevent catastrophes of early decadesaftercenturies decades of centuries fromreoccurring and affecting internationaltiesso this is the briton woods nowas this britain woods was largelyinfluenced by the ideas of britisheconomist john maynard keynes sothis was thepattern after the influence of johnmaynard kenis one of the prominenteconomiesso after this no because of the ritualgood system a critical institutionat the time when many of the worldcities have been destroyed because ofthe warsothere was a creation of internationalfinancial institution the two we havethe imf and the international bank forreconstruction and development which isknown today as world bank this is tofund the postwar reconstruction projectso shortly after the britain was variouscountries also committed themselves offurther global economic integrationthrough the gut and the wtlso we will be talking about againumglobalizationthe world that's not going become smallbut because of financial institutionsbecause of market integration because ofglobal economy activities we can sensethat the world is becoming very smallnot particularlyso this is now our second questionfor this video so what comes to yourmind when you hear the word globalvillage what is all about global villageso give me your thoughts on globalvillage there these two terms aretotally opposite global and village noso pinocchio according to marshallmcluhanwe are see we are seeing we seems we itseems that we are living in a globalvillagesohistorical perspective that is why we'retalking about the previous trades no thevalue and trade the self growth andotherinternationalfinancial institutionso let's focus on economic globalizationand thison this presentation the globalizationeconomical or economic globalizationcentral and asian globalization economyso we cannot really separate economicstechnologyumin the discussion of globalizationwhich whichrevolvessome trading which revolves in tradingof different products and servicesso before we wait for how many monthsand years before a product will be ableto reach a certain country like in thegalleon trade you know where thethefilipinos are going to trade ourproducts toto mexico we all know that mexico is faraway from us milesthe distance is miles and miles awayfrom us so that was the trading patternbefore but today because of the adventof technology we could easily get ourproducts we can easily change ourproduct because of the advent oftechnologyso one isso technology is the main mechanism whythere is globalization so there are twoimportant terms here we have the economyand globalizationwe havediscussed this already you know induring theduring the philippine uh whenphilippines was followed as miss spainthere were and prior to the coming ofthe spaniard the chinese conducted atradeto our country philippines soeven in the ancient time there wasalready tradingyeahlike thechinese in chinese dynasty they haveconducted trades among countries ineurope and middle east using the cellroadnow in the 19th century uh whenportuguese and spaniards became morepowerfuluhthey introduced us a format of ofeconomy which is the basis of of wealthis the goal that's mercantilismtheir main productsand of course in the 19th to 20thcentury where revolution that's theindustrial revolution uh sprouted youknow mullah sahulin bahagin 18th centuryhong kong's 19th century andareasso revolution industrial or theindustrial revolution started in europeparticularly in england or unitedkingdomsoduring after the world war ii andworldwide world war one and world war iisowe have introduced ourselves to the neoliberalism whichworld treaties and organizationsinternational financial organizationsstarted and the free market or thecapitalism was also introduced wherethere is a free trading you know sounited nations monetary and financialfinancial conferenceso the britain roots is also called theunmfcunited nations monetary and financialconferencesothey have introduced the free marketsystem you knowthis uh britain woods was inaugurated inmount washington hotel britain woods newhampshire okaythe main objective of this conference isto rehabilitatethe tradingafter the first world war and secondworld warbecause we have found out that there area lot of destructionin our infrastructure and especially inour economy after the world war so theunited nations they decided to create afree market system through the britainwoods conferencebecause of the brittle wood system as idiscussed earlieruh imfibrd or also calledandinternational financial institutionsan international organizationmultinational corporation private groupsand nongovernmental organizationsworld trade organization so the mainobjectives of the world organizationuh is to create a rules and policywhen it comes to international tradingwe also have regional organizations likethe unitedeuropean union union association ofsoutheast asian nation the asia pacificeconomic council and oil patrolpetroleum exporting countries so thisour regional organizationinternational and regional organizationokay so let's talk aboutgut and the wto so the god is a generalagreement on tariffs and trade saythere are 23 countriessigned the general agreement on targetsand trade becauseonce there is a trade although it's afree orwhatever form of trading system there isalways what we call a tax rift atarix isa foreignto minimize the trade barrier so that wecan have a free trade because if thereis a high tariff taxthere could be a barrier of the freetradeagricultural products like bananaweexport bananas but we need also to payat rf tax to the country thatokayokay so last we have the last slidethese are what we call the protectivebarriers or protective muscles so thatso that our local products can alsocompete through the internationalproductsuh portal products to other countriesalthough we have our local products wehave our ownlocal uh local portrait productsproducers local farmers local poultrygrowersworld trade organization from generalagreement uh generalagreement on trade andan agreementorganizationsoi think we are done already talkingabout the global economy so i hope thatyou have learned something from ourtoday's discussionMARKET INTEGRATIONMarket integration is a term that is used to identify a phenomenon in which markets of goods and services that are somehow related to one another being to experience similar patterns of increase or decrease in terms of the prices of those products. The term can also refer to a situation in which the prices of related goods and services sold in a defined geographical location also begin to move in some sort of similar pattern to one another. At times, the integration may be intentional, with a government implementing certain strategies as a way to control the direction of the economy. At other times, the integrating of the markets may be due to factor such as shifts in supply and demand that have a spillover effect on several markets.When a market integration exists, the events occurring within two or more markets are exerting effects that also prompt similar changes or shifts in other markets that focus on related goods. For example, if the demand for baby dolls within a given geographical market were to suddenly be reduced by 50%, there is a good chance that the demand for baby doll clothing would also decrease in proportion within that same geographical market. Should the baby market increase, this would usually mean that the market for doll clothing would also increase. Both markets would have the chance to adjust pricing in order to deal with the new circumstances surrounding the demand, as well as adjust other factors, such as production.Assets related to a specific industry trade for the same price on stock exchanges around the world with a stock market integration.Assets related to a specific industry trade for the same price on stock exchanges around the world with a stock market integration.Market integration may occur with just about any type of related markets. With a stock market integration, similar trends in trading prices for assets related to a given industry may be found in two or more markets around the world. In like manner, financial market integration may occur when lending rates in several different markets begin to move in tandem with one another. In some cases, the integration within a nation may involve the emergence of similar patterns within the capital, stock, and financial markets, with those trends coming together to exert a profound influence on the economy of that nation.Market integration can often be a very positive situation, especially if the emerging pattern regarding pricing is indicative of an increasingly prosperous economy. At the same time, assessing integration between markets can also be a useful tool in identifying trends that are less than desirable, and having the chance to begin reversing those trends while there is still time. For this reason, financial analysts as well as economists will often monitor activity in related markets, identify any signs of integration and make recommendations on what strategies could be used to make the most of the emerging situation.MARKET INTEGRATIONI. Definition of Market IntegrationAccording to the Cambridge Business English Dictionary, Market Integration is a situationin  which separate  markets for  the  same product become  one single  market,for example when an import tax in one of the market is removed. Integration is taken to denote a state of affairs or a process involving attempts to combineseparate national economies into larger economic regions (Robson, 1998, p.1)II. Free Trade DefinitionFree Trade wherein international trade (the importation and exportation) left to its naturalcourse  without tariffs  and  nontariff  trade  barriers such  as quotas, embargoes,sanctions or other restrictions. oTariffs  taxes or duties to be paid on a particular class of imports or exportsoEmbargo   a  governmentinstituted  prevention  of  exports  to  a  certain  country.Official ban on trade or other commercial activity. (The United States has imposedseveral  longrunning embargoes on  other countries including  Cuba,  North  Koreaand Iran)oEconomic sanctions  commercial and financial penalties applied by one or morecountries against a targeted country, group, or individualFree Trade Areas  a group of countries within which tariffs and nontariff trade barriersbetween the members are generally abolished but with no common trade policy toward nonmembers.  Both  in  the  sense  of geography  and  price,  is  the  foundation  of  these  tradingagreements. However, tariffs are not necessarily completely abolished for all products.Free trade areas impose exclusivity among its members since the world is not entirely a freetrade economy.WORLD’S MAJOR FREE TRADE AREAS1. North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)2. Association of Southeast Asian Nations Free Trade Area (AFTA)3. Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR)4. Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA)Here are not Free Trade Areas yet Union and Partnership Agreements5. European Union6. TransPacific Partnership7. Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership – not yet ratifiedNorth American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)Free trade between the three member nations, Canada, the US and MexicoEffective on January 1, 1994 Although tariffs weren’t fully abolished until 2008by 2014 total trilateral merchandise trade exceeded US$1.12 trilliontrade  with  Canada  and  Mexico  supports  more  than 140,000  small  and  mediumsizebusinesses and over 3 million jobs in the USGains in Canada are reportedly even higher, with 4.7 million new jobs added since 1993.Canada is also the largest exporter of goods to the USAssociation of Southeast Asian Nations Free Trade Area (AFTA)The  original members  were Brunei,  Indonesia,  Malaysia,  Philippines,  Singapore  andThailand.  Four  countries  have  subsequently  joined: Vietnam,  Laos,  Myanmar  andCambodiaThe AFTA was signed in January 1992 in SingaporeThe bloc has largely removed all export and import duties on items traded between thenations. It  has  also  entered  into agreements  with  a  number  of other  nations, including  China,eliminating tariffs on around 90% of imported goods.The AFTA nations had a combined GDP of US$2.3 trillion in 2012, and they're home to600 million people. Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR)a Latin American single market, its  full members are Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay  andUruguay. Venezuela is a full member but has been suspended since December 1, 2016.Meanwhile, Bolivia obtained its full membership on July 7, 2015. Established by the Treaty of Asunción in 1991 and Protocol of Ouro Preto in 1994 The four have a combined gross domestic product (GDP) of roughly $2.9 trillionLatin America’s secondlargest trade group, the Pacific Alliance, which comprises Chile,Colombia, Mexico, and Peru, has a combined GDP of about $1.8 trillionCommon Market of Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA)The member States of COMESA are: Burundi, the Comoros, the Democratic Republic ofCongo,  Djibouti, Egypt,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia, Kenya, Libya,  Madagascar,  Malawi,Mauritius, Rwanda, Sudan, Swaziland, Seychelles, Uganda, Zambia and ZimbabweFormed in December 1994 an annual export bill in excess of $80 billion, the organization is a significant market place,both within Africa and globally COMESA  utlimately  aims to  remove  all  barriers  to  intraregional  trade,  starting  withpreferential tariffs and working towards a tarifffree common market and economic union.European Union (EU)is a single market, which is similar to a free trade area in that it has no tariffs, quotas ortaxes on tradeThe 28 member countries of the EU Austria, Italy, Belgium, Latvia, Bulgaria, Lithuania,Croatia, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Malta, Czech Republic, Netherlands, Denmark, Poland,Estonia,  Portugal,  Finland, Romania,  France, Slovakia,  Germany,  Slovenia,  Greece,Spain, Hungary, Sweden, Ireland, United KingdomThe European Union's GDP was estimated to be €14.8 trillion or $17.1 trillion (nominal) in2016In 1957, the Treaty of Rome established the European Economic Community (EEC) orCommon Market. However, it was not until 1986 that the Single European Act was signed.This treaty formed the basis of the single market as we know it, as it aimed to establish thefreeflow of trade across EU borders. By 1993 this process was largely complete.TransPacific Partnership (TPP)Australia,  Brunei,  Canada,  Chile,  Japan,  Malaysia,  Mexico,  New  Zealand,  Peru,Singapore and Vietnam have just signed the trade pact formerly known as the TransPacificPartnership In  the  absence  of  the  US,  it  has  been  renamed  the Comprehensive  and  ProgressiveAgreement for TransPacific Partnership (CPTPP)Signed February 04, 2016The deal covers a market of nearly 500 million people, despite the US pullout.The Transatlantic Trade and Investment PartnershipThe Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership is a deal currently being negotiatedbetween the EU and the US. It would cover 45% of global GDP. The Center for Economic Policy Research has estimated that the deal would be worth $134billion a year for the EU and $107 billion for the US – although opponents have disputedthese figures.Free Trade IssueIn government, free trade is predominately advocated by political parties that hold rightwing economic positions, while economically leftwing political parties generally supportPROTECTIONISM.Protectionism  the theory or practice of shielding a country's domestic industries fromforeign competition by taxing imports to protect their domestic industries Economic  nationalism or economic  patriotism   an  ideology  that  favors stateinterventionism in the economy, with policies that emphasize domestic control of theeconomy, labor, and capital formation, even if this requires the imposition of tariffs andother restrictions on the movement of labor, goods and capitalIII. Brief History of Global Market Integration in the 20th CenturyThe international economic integration achieved during the nineteenth century was largelyunraveled in the twentieth by two world war and the Great Depression.World War 1 brought the liberal economic order of the late 19th century to an abrupt end;1914 clearly marked a dramatic and discontinuous break in the past.Import shares fell only marginally in Britain during the war. In France, the import sharerose from 20% before the war to 36.7 % during it; again exports fell sharply.Export ratios rose in neutral economies such as in Sweden, Japan, and North America.,where grain production expanded sharply during the war years to meet Allied demand.The absence of European manufactured exports on world markets stimulated the expansionof industrial capacity, above all in the United States and Japan, but also in countries such asIndia, Australia, and Latin America.The end of war did not imply an end to protection. Different tariff acts and restrictions aremade.The Great Depression was of course a major reason for the adoption of severe protection,and not just in the periphery.Beginning in 1932, there were several signs that at least some countries were trying tomoderate, if not reverse, the increase in protectionism of the previous year or two.Post war economic reintegration was supported by several factors, both technological andpolitical.IV. The Role of International Financial Institutions in the Creation of Global EconomyInternational Financial InstitutionsInternational  nonprofit  agencies  are  one  of  the major  sources  of  financing likeregional development banks or banks globally.To finance productive development projects or to promote economic developmentA. WORLD BANKmultinational financial institution established at the end of World War II (1944) to helpprovide longterm capital for the reconstruction and development of member countries.it provides much of the planning and financing for economic development projectsinvolving billions of dollars Purpose for the setting up of the BankTo assist in the reconstruction and development of territories of members To promote private foreign investment by means of guarantees or participation in loans andother investments made by private investorsTo promote the longrange balanced growth of international trade and the maintenance ofequilibrium in balance of payments To  conduct  its  operations  with  due  regard  to  the  effect  of  international  investment  onbusiness conditions in the territories of members To assist in bringing about a smooth transition from a wartime to a peacetime economyInternational Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)The IBRD was set up in 1945 along with the IMF to aid in rebuilding the world economy andit was owned by the governments of 151 countries and its capital is subscribed by thosegovernmentsIt provides funds to borrowers by borrowing funds in the world capital markets, from theproceeds of loan repayments as well as retained earnings.At its funding, the bank’s major objective was to serve as an international financing facilityto function in reconstruction and development. Lends money to a  government for the purpose of developing that country’s economicinfrastructure such as roads and power generating facilitiesAlso,  funds  are  lent only  to  members  of  the  IMF,  usually  when  private  capital  isunavailable at reasonable terms. Generally,  bank  loans  are  made  to cover  only  import  needs  in  foreign  convertiblecurrencies and must be repaid in those currencies at longterm rates. The government assisted in formulating and implementing an effective and comprehensivestrategy for the development of new industrial free zones and the expansion of existingones Lays special operational emphasis on environmental and women’s issues. International Development Association The IDA was formed in 1960 as a part of the World Bank Group to provide financial supportto LDCs and has 137 member countries, although all members of the IBRD are free to jointhe IDA. IDA’s funds come from subscriptions from its developed members and from the earningsof the IBRD. Credit terms usually are extended to 40 to 50 years with no interest. Repayment begins after a tenyear grace period and can be paid in the local currency, aslong as it is convertible.  Although the IDA’s resources are separate from the IBRD, it has no separate staff. Loans aremade for similar projects as those carried out by IBRD, but at easier and more favorablecredit terms. The present emphasis seems to be on helping the masses of poor people in the developingcountries become more productive and take an active  part  in  the development process.Greater emphasis is being placed on improving urban living conditions and increasingproductivity of small industries.International Finance CorporationThe IFC was established in 1956. There are 133 countries that are members of the IFC and itis legally and financially separate from the IBRDMain responsibilities are:(i) To provide risk capital in the form of equity and longterm loans for productive privateenterprises in association with private investors and management; (ii) To encourage the development of  local capital markets by carrying out standby andunderwriting arrangements; and (iii)  To  stimulate  the  international  flow  of  capital  by  providing  financial  and  technicalassistance to privately controlled finance companies. Loans are made to private firms in thedeveloping member countries and are usually for a period of seven to twelve yearsThe key feature of the IFC is that its loans are made to private enterprises and itsinvestments are made in conjunction with private business. In addition to funds contributed by IFC, funds are also contributed to the same projectsby local and foreign investorsWhat does the World Bank do?The World Bank is the world’s largest source of development assistance, providing nearly$30 billion in loans, annually, to its client countries. The main focus is on helping the poorest people and the poorest countries hut for all itsclients, the Bank emphasizes the need for: investing in people, particularly through basic health and education; protecting the environment; supporting and encouraging private business development; strengthening the ability of the governments to deliver quality services efficientlyand transparently; promoting  reforms  to  create  a  stable  macroeconomic  environment  conducive  toinvestment and longterm planning;focusing on social development, inclusion, governance and Institution building as key elements of poverty reductionThe Bank is also helping countries to strengthen and sustain the fundamental conditionsthat help to attract and retain private investment. They are investing in human resources, infrastructure and environmental protectionwhich enhance the attractiveness and productivity of private investmentINTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUNDIMF is a cooperative institution that 182 countries have voluntarily joined because they seethe advantage of consulting with one another on this forum to maintain a stable system ofbuying and selling their currenciesIts policies and activities are guided by its Charter known as the Articles of Agreement.IMF  lends  money  to  members  having  trouble  meeting  financial  obligations  to  othermembers, but only on the condition that they undertake economic reforms to eliminatethese difficulties for their own good and that of the entire membership. Contrary to widespread perception, the IMF has no effective authority over the domesticeconomic policies of its membersThere are several major accomplishments to the credit of the International Monetary System.For example, it • sustained a rapidly increasing volume of trade and investment; • displayed flexibility in adapting to changes in international commerce; • proved to be efficient (even when there were decreasing percentages of reserves totrade); • proved to be hardy (it survived a number of pre1971 crises, speculative and otherwise,and the downandup swings of several business cycles); • allowed for a growing degree or international cooperation; • established a capacity to accommodate reforms and improvements To an extent, the fund served as an international central bank to help countries during periods oftemporary balance of payments difficulties by protecting their rates of exchange. Because of that,countries did not need to resort to exchange controls and other barriers to restrict world tradePurpose of IMFTo promote international monetary cooperation through a permanent institution that providesthe machinery for consultation and collaboration on international monetary problemsTo facilitate the expansion and balanced growth of  international trade and  to contribute,thereby, to the promotion and maintenance of high levels of employment and real income andto the development of the productive resources of all members as primary objectives ofeconomic policyTo promote exchange stability, to maintain orderly exchange arrangements among membersand to avoid competitive exchange depreciationTo assist in the establishment of a multilateral system of payments in respect of currenttransactions between members and in the elimination of foreign exchange restrictions whichhamper the growth of world tradeTo give confidence to members by making the general resources of the Fund temporarilyavailable to them under adequate safeguards, thus providing them with opportunity to correctmaladjustment in their balance of payments without resorting to measures destructive tonational or international prosperityIn accordance with the above, to shorten the duration and lessen the degree of disequilibriumin the international balances of payments of members.How can IFIs help in Economic Globalization  They  focus  on  longterm  investment  projects,  institutionbuilding,  and  on  social,environmental, and poverty issues strengthen economic governance safeguard the stability and integrity of the international financial system as a global public good encouraging true national ownership of reforms by streamlining the conditions attached toIMFsupported programs. recognizes and values the role of civil society organizations ensuring the stability of the international financial system  helping  individual  countries  take  advantage  of  the  investment  opportunities  offered  byinternational capital markets, while reducing their vulnerability to adverse shocks or changes ininvestor sentiment. Trade liberalization Reducing debt burdens Setting the stage for the 2030 development agendaV. Global CorporationsA. Definition of CorporationA corporation is an artificial being created by operation of law, having the right of successionand the powers, attributes and properties expressly authorized by law or incident to its existence(Batas Pambansa Blg. 68 The Corporation Code of The Philippines, Section 2 – Corporationdefined).According to Investopedia, a corporation is a legal entity that is separate and distinct from itsowners. Corporations enjoy most of the rights and responsibilities that an individual possesses;that is, a corporation has the right to enter into contracts, loan and borrow money, sue and besued, hire employees, own assets and pay taxes.Based on Entrepreneur Asia Pacific Small  Business  Encyclopedia, corporation is  a form ofbusiness operation that declares the business as a separate, legal entity guided by a group ofofficers known as the board of directors B. The Birth of CorporationsEarliest forms of Global Corporations (Religious and Mercantile Sectors)Roman Catholic Church as the religion of Roman Empire during the 4th Century AD. Itsought monopoly of spiritual power against both paganism and other religious faiths in thoseterritories that came under its influence.Muscovy Company, also called Russia Company, body of English merchants trading withRussia. The company was formed in 1555 by the navigator and explorer Sebastian Cabot andvarious London merchants and was granted a monopoly of AngloRussian trade. It was thefirst English jointstock company in which the capital remained regularly in use instead ofbeing repaid after every voyage.The British East India Company, founded in 1600, and The Dutch East India Company,founded  in  1602, are  often  called the  first  multinational corporations.  Headquartered  inEngland and the Netherlands, respectively, these firms were set up to trade goods such ascotton and spices over a large portion of South and Southeast Asia, then called the EastIndies. The Dutch East India Company very quickly became the wealthiest and largestmercantile organization the world had ever seen; by 1669 it had 150 merchant ships, 40warships, 50,000 employees and a private army of 10,000 soldiers, and paid dividends of 40per cent per annum.Dutch  WestIndische  Compagnie byname  of West  India  Company,  a  Dutch  tradingcompany, founded in 1621 mainly to carry on economic warfare against Spain and Portugalby striking at their colonies in the West Indies and South America and on the west coast ofAfrica. The Dutch West India Company was much less successful than the Dutch East IndiaCompany, its counterpart in Southeast Asia. Industrial Revolution 1700’s. From the introduction of the first viable Steam Engine byThomas Newcomen at Dudley Castle coal mine in 1712, the invention of steam engine wascrucial  to  the  industrialization  of  modern  civilization.  For  almost  200  years  it  was  theoutstanding source of power for industry and transport systems in the West. The Civil War in the United States began in 1861, after decades of simmering tensionsbetween northern and southern states over slavery, states’ rights and westward expansion.Growing abolitionist  sentiment  in the  North  after the 1830s  and  northern  opposition toslavery’s extension into the new western territories led many southerners to fear that theexistence of slavery in America—and thus the backbone of their economy—was in danger.World War II (19341935) During the war a number of major multinational corporationsengaged in the production of strategic materials, such as oil and synthetic rubber, wereaccused in congressional hearings and on the floor of Congress of having conspired with theenemy before the war. In particular, the oil and petrochemical industries were charged withexchanging trade  secrets in chemicals  with  the chemical giant I. G.  Farben and otherGerman firms deemed instruments of Nazi policy in return for trade secrets in oil refining.Civil and criminal actions were even brought against a number of these companies, the mostnotable  being  against Exxon,  which  in  1929  had  signed  an  agreement  with  Farbenrecognizing its "preferred position" in chemicals in return for Farben's recognition of Exxon's"preferred position" in oil and natural gas. The two giant corporations also pledged closecooperation in their respective enterprises. Standard Oil (Exxon) – based in Irving Texas,USA sold their patent of coal hydrogenation processes to the Germans (I.G. Farben) so thatthe Germans could produce fuel from their own coal and the Germans gave them the patentshow to manufacture synthetic rubber.By  the  1930s,  the  new Nazi  government needed  recruited International  BusinessMachines (IBM) for their revolutionary punchedcard system. Tabulating machines madetracking lines of Jewish descent possible. By the time the Holocaust began in earnest in1941, the Nazis tattooed concentration camp prisoners with identification numbers so thatadministrators could track that  prisoner’s punch card  throughout the  system. IBM’smachines were perfect for this, and for tracking the train traffic coming into the concentrationcamps.  Indeed,  the  Nazis  soon  placed  tabulating  machines  made  by  IBM’s  Germansubsidiary, Dehomag, in every train depot and every concentration camp.C. The Contemporary Global CorporationA global corporation  is  generally  referred  to  as  a multinational corporation (MNC),transnational corporation (TNC), international company.An enterprise that engages  in  activities  which add value (manufacturing,  extraction,services,  marketing,  etc) in more  than  one  country (United  Nations  Centre  OnTransnational Corporations, 1991).MNCs place multiple production facilities in multiple countries under the control of asingle corporate structure (Oatley, International Political Economy 5th ion).A multinational corporation (MNC) is a company that operates in more than one country.Generally, multinational corporations consist of separate companies (called subsidiaries)in different countries, all of which answer to a central office located in the firm’s homecountry  (Riggs,  Everyday  Finance:  Economics,  Personal  Money  Management,  andEntrepreneurship)D. The Historical Events for the Global Corporations1973 Oil Crisis The crisis began when the Organization of the Petroleum ExportingCountries (OPEC), an alliance of oilproducing Arab nations, cut off oil supplies to theUnited States in retaliation for U.S. support of Israel (which was at war with neighboringArab countries). Predictably, gas prices in the United States soared, and people had to wait inlong lines to get gas for their cars. Many U.S. citizens believed that the oil industry, whichwielded an unusual amount of power over the countries in which it operated, had engineeredthis sequence of events to drive up profits. These suspicions seemed confirmed by the factthat profits for all of the major oil companies increased sharply in 1974: Exxon’s profitsgrew 28.6 percent, Gulf’s 33 percent, and Mobil’s 23.3 percent. These profits came at thesame time that the U.S. economy was experiencing its most severe crisis since the GreatDepression of the 1930s.World Trade Organization (WTO) is an international organization established on January1,  1995  under  the  Marrakesh  Agreement after  the  Uruguay  Round  (1986–94)  ofmultilateral trade negotiations. WTO’s role is to supervise and liberalize world trade. TheWTO is the successor to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which wascreated in 1947 in the expectation that it would soon be replaced by a specialized agency ofthe United Nations (UN) to be called the International Trade Organization (ITO). Althoughthe ITO never materialized, the GATT proved remarkably successful in liberalizing worldtrade  over  the  next  five  decades.  By  the  late  1980s  there  were  calls  for  a strongermultilateral organization to monitor trade and resolve trade disputes. Seattle WTO protests of 1999, in full Seattle World Trade Organization protests of 1999,also called Battle of Seattle, a series of marches, direct actions, and protests carried out fromNovember 28 through December 3, 1999, that disrupted the World Trade Organization(WTO) Ministerial Conference in Seattle, Washington. Comprising a broad and diffusecoalition of the American Federation of Labor–Congress of Industrial Organizations(AFLCIO) and other labor unions, student groups, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),media activists, international farm and industrial workers, anarchists, and others, the SeattleWTO protests are often viewed as the inauguration of the antiglobalization movement.9/11 Attack, on the morning of September 11, 2001, 19 terrorists hijacked four planes atBoston's Logan airport. They chose planes headed for the West Coast because they would beloaded with fuel. They planned to cripple the U.S. economy by destroying three centers ofpower: Wall Street, the Pentagon, and the White House.The 9/11 attacks had both immediate and longterm economic impacts, some of whichcontinue to this day. The attacks caused The Dow (The Dow Jones Averages are stock marketindices that represent the U.S. economy in three sectors: industry, transportation and utilities)to drop more than 600 points and the 2001 recession to deepen. It also led to the War onTerror, one of the most prominent government spending programs in U.S. historyE. The Difference between 20th Century and Contemporary Multinational CorporationsThe MNCs of the post WW2 period are different from those of earlier periods in being morefocused on manufacturing and services than on extraction of raw materials and commodities(Dicken, 2015) and more likely to be financed by a combination of foreign direct investment(FDI) and local capital rather than international portfolio investments (Gilpin  1975).  Inaddition,  contemporary  MNCs  are  the  predominant  owners  of  proprietary  technology.MNCs account for at least 50 percent of R&D spending worldwide (Keller 2009; Zeile2014). In the United States and elsewhere, most patents are awarded to MNCs (Florida2005; OECD 2008). In the last two decades of the twentieth century, competing MNCs froma growing number of economies have created geographically dispersed “value chains” totake advantage of lower R&D, production, and distribution costs made possible by lowerbarriers to trade and investment flows (Borrus and Zysman 1997; Ernst and Kim 2002;Gereffi 1996; Gereffi et al 2005; Sturgeon 2002;  Sturgeon 2007;  Sturgeon and Gereffi2009). F. Activities of Multinational CorporationsInternational  companies  are importers  and  exporters,  typically  without  investmentoutside of their home country;Multinational  companies  have investment  in  other  countries,  but  do  not  havecoordinated product offerings in each country. They are more focused on adapting theirproducts and services to each individual local market.Transnational companies are more complex organizations which have invested in foreignoperations,  have  a  central  corporate  facility  but  give  decisionmaking,  research  anddevelop (R&D) and marketing powers to each individual foreign market. G. Tactics of Multinational CorporationsForeign Direct Investment occurs when a firm based in once country builds a new plant ora factory or purchases existing one in a second country a national corporation thus becomesan MNC by making a foreign direct investment. As consequence, the world's stock of FDI,the total amount of foreign investment in operation has grown from 692.5 billion dollars in1980 to 16.2 trillion dollars in 2008 (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development2009,251) 2,300 percent increase in less that 30 years. Types of FDI1. Horizontal Integration occurs when firms creates multiple production of facilities eachof which produces the same good or goods. Firms integrate horizontally when a costadvantage is gained by placing a number of plants under common administrative control.Intangible asset can be based on patented process or design. These assets are difficult tosell to other  firms at a price that accurately  reflect their true value that's  why firmshorizontally integrate.2. Vertical integration refers to instances in which firms internalize their transaction forintermediate goods. An intermediate good is an output of one production process thatserves as an input into another production process. Specific asset is an investment that isdedicated to a particular longterm economic relationship. By internalizing transactionsinvolving  specific  assets,  therefore,  vertical  integration  enables  welfareimprovinginvestments.H. Contributions of Multinational CorporationsThe possible benefits of a multinational investing in a country may include:Improving the  balance  of  payments   inward  investment will  usually help  a  country'sbalance of payments situation. The investment itself will be a direct flow of capital into thecountry  and  the  investment  is  also  likely  to  result  in  import  substitution  and  exportpromotion. Export promotion comes due to the multinational using their production facilityas a basis for exporting, while import substitution means that products previously importedmay now be bought domestically.Providing employment  FDI will usually result in employment benefits for the host countryas most employees will be locally recruited. These benefits may be relatively greater giventhat governments will usually try to attract firms to areas where there is relatively highunemployment or a good labor supply.Source of tax revenue  profits of multinationals will be subject to local taxes in most cases,which will provide a valuable source of revenue for the domestic government.Technology  transfer   multinationals  will  bring  with  them  technology  and  productionmethods that are probably new to the host country and a lot can therefore be learnt from thesetechniques. Workers will be trained to use the new technology and production techniques anddomestic  firms  will  see  the  benefits  of  the  new  technology.  This  process  is  known  astechnology transfer.Increasing choice  if the multinational manufactures for domestic markets as well as forexport, then the local population will gain form a wider choice of goods and services and at aprice possibly lower than imported substitutes.National reputation  the presence of one multinational may improve the reputation of thehost country and other large corporations may follow suite and locate as wellI. Issues of Multinational CorporationsEnvironmental impact  multinationals will want to produce in ways that are as efficientand as cheap as possible and this may not always be the best environmental practice. Theywill often lobby governments hard to try to ensure that they can benefit from regulationsbeing  as  lax  as  possible  and  given their  economic  importance to  the  host country,  thislobbying will often be quite effective.Uncertainty  multinational firms are increasingly 'footloose'. This means that they can moveand change at very short notice and often will. This creates uncertainty for the host country.Increased competition  the impact the local industries can be severe, because the presenceof  newly  arrived  multinationals  increases  the  competition  in  the  economy  and  becausemultinationals should be able to produce at a lower cost.Influence and  political  pressure  multinational investment  can be  very  important to acountry and this will often give them a disproportionate influence over government and otherorganizations in the host country. Given their economic importance, governments will oftenagree to changes that may not be beneficial for the longterm welfare of their peopleTransfer pricing  multinationals will always aim to reduce their tax liability to a minimum.One way of doing this is through transfer pricing. The aim of this is to reduce their taxliability in countries with high tax rates and increase them in the countries with low tax rates.They  can  do  this  by  transferring  components  and  partfinished  goods  between  theiroperations in different countries at differing prices. Where  the  tax  liability is high, theytransfer the goods at a relatively high price to make the costs appear higher. This is thenrecouped in the lower tax country by transferring the goods at a relatively lower price. Thiswill reduce their overall tax bill.Lowskilled employment  the jobs created in the local environment may be lowskilledwith the multinational employing expatriate workers for the more senior and skilled roles.Health and safety  multinationals have been accused of cutting corners on health and safetyin countries where regulation and laws are not as rigorous.Export of Profits  large multinational are likely to repatriate profits back to their 'homecountry', leaving little financial benefits for the host country.Cultural and social impact  large numbers of foreign businesses can dilute local customsand  traditional  cultures.  For  example,  the  sociologist  George  Ritzer  coined  theterm McDonaldization to describe the process by which more and more sectors of Americansociety as well as of the rest of the world take on the characteristics of a fastfood restaurant,such  as  increasing  standardization  and  the  movement  away  from  traditional  businessapproaches.J. Corporations in the PhilippinesA. Universal Canning Incorporated one of the largest and most dynamic marine industrial conglomerates in the PhilippinesUniversal Canning, Inc. has tapped new markets for canned sardines, specifically theEuropean Union, and likewise expanded its product line to include dried and frozen fish, firmlyestablishing its growing reputation as the premier seafood processing company in the countrySince its inception, UCI has gradually emerged as the most dominant player in the localcanned  sardine  industry.  It's  FAMILY’S  brand  sardines  is  regarded  as  the  fastest  growingsardines brand in the country and has been awarded ‘Most Outstanding Sardines Brand’ bymultiple respectable agencies nationwide.  engaged  in  deep  sea  fishing,  ice  production  and  cold  storage,  seafood  canning,  fishmealproduction, ship repair, dry dock and maintenance.The  resources  collectively  afford  an  independent  and  fully  integrated  process  ofproviding fresh fish to the market or the cannery, bringing into reality the concept of “straightfrom the sea to the can.” Family’s brand, master sardines, Atami brand, MikadoVertical IntegrationZamboanga  Universal  Fishing  Corp.,  the  largest  deepsea  fishing  company  inMindanao: Catches the fish;Universal Shipyard: Maintains the fishing fleet; Universal Ice Plant and Cold Storage:  Provides the means of ensuring the fish catchstays fresh before processingSouthern Philippines Fishmeal Corp:  Processes cannery waste materials (heads, tails,entrails) into fishmeal and fish oil.B. Universal Robina Corporation  engaged  in  a  wide  range  of  foodrelated  businesses,  including  the  manufacture anddistribution of branded consumer foodsURC is the leading branded snackfoods and beverage company in the Philippines. URC– the first “Philippine Pan ASEAN Multinational” – has proven itself to be a trailblazer inmanufacturing  with  a  strong  and  loyal  consumer  base.  URC’s  products  are  already  beingexported to mainstream markets in the US, Europe, Japan, Korea the Middle East and frontiermarkets in West Africa, like Ghana and Nigeria. built three strong regional brands over the years; “Jack ‘n Jill” for snack foods, “C2” forready to drink tea, and “Great Taste” for coffeeURC’s  key  to  success  is  to  build  very  strong  branding  through  a  robust  productinnovation  pipeline,  consumercentric  marketing  and  worldclass  manufacturing  and  supplychain management.Vertical IntegrationIn  the early  1970s, they entered  the  commodities  business through the  formation  ofContinental Milling Corporation, for flour milling and production. The late 1980s brought theacquisition of three sugar mills and refineries, under URC Sugar. These two businesses providedstable cash flows, and allowed for further vertical integration in the supply chain, to help URCweather any volatility in the cyclical commodities markets. In line with this strategy, the late1990s saw the entry of URC into the plastics business, through URC PackagingC. Jollibeelargest fast food chain in the Philippines, operating a nationwide network of over 750stores.A dominant market leader in the Philippines, Jollibee enjoys the lion’s share of the localmarket that is more than all the other multinational brands combined. The company has alsoembarked on an aggressive international expansion plan in  the USA, Vietnam, Hong Kong,Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Brunei, firmly establishing itself as a growing international QSR player  Jollibee  Foods  Corporation’s  (“JFC”  or  the  “Company”)  core  business  is  thedevelopment, operation and franchising of its quickservice restaurant brands.The tried and tested formula of delivering greattasting food, adherence to world classoperating standards and the universal appeal of the family values the brand represents that aredriving the expansion of Jollibee both locally and in the overseas market.VI. Trivia, Videos and Other Information2017 World Economic Forum World’s 10 Biggest Corporations1. Apple2. Alphabet 3. Microsoft4. Berkshire Hathaway5. Exxon Mobil6. Amazon7. Facebook8. Johnson and Johnson9. General Electric10. China Mobile The World’s Largest Public Companies (Forbes Global 2000, 2018)1. ICBC (Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) 2. China Construction Bank 3. JPMorgan Chase 4. Berkshire Hathaway 5. Agricultural Bank of China 6. Bank of America 7. Wells Fargo 8. Apple 9. Bank of China 10. Ping an Insurance GroupThe first American Multinational Company is I.M. Singer & Co. in 1851 by Isaac MerrittSinger with New York Lawyer Edward Clark.According to the Forbes, Hong Kong with only 2,754 km² land area is the 8th RichestCountry in the world because of it attracts multiple MNCs due to its probusiness economicpolicies.According  to  the  Philippine  Constitution  of  1987 ARTICLE  XII  –  NATIONALECONOMY AND  PATRIMONY Section  11 The  participation  of  foreign  investors  in  thegoverning body of any public utility enterprise shall be limited to their proportionate share in itscapital, and all the executive and managing officers of such corporation or association must becitizens of the Philippines. And the law only allows 40% foreign ownership. This economicpolicy affects the FDI in the Philippines.Investopedia Explaining Economic Integration YouTubeThe Corporation (Documentary) YouTubeWhat is a corporation?The Birth of CorporationBoundary IssuesExpansion PlanTaking the Right SideREFERENCESAll That's Interesting. (2018, March 25). How IBM Helped The Nazis Carry Out The Holocaust. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from http://allthatsinteresting.com/ibmnazisww2Amadeo, K. (n.d.). How the 9/11 Attacks Still Damage the Economy Today. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/howthe911attacksstillaffecttheeconomytoday3305536Anderson, K. (2018, July 06). World Trade Organization. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.britannica.com/topic/WorldTradeOrganizationBirchall, J., Morris, G., & Clark, P. (n.d.). 1 Introduction to Business Management. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from http://textbook.stpauls.br/business_organization/page_144.htmBoitnott, J., Patel, D., & Zipkin, N. (n.d.). Corporation Definition  Entrepreneur Small Business Encyclopedia. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.entrepreneur.com/encyclopedia/corporationBritannica, T. E. (2013, August 01). Muscovy Company. Retrieved July 7, 2018, from  https://www.britannica.com/topic/MuscovyCompanyBritannica, T. E. (2014, May 08). Dutch West India Company. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.britannica.com/topic/DutchWestIndiaCompanyCaseySawicki, K. (2017, April 21). Seattle WTO protests of 1999. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.britannica.com/event/SeattleWTOprotestsof1999Directorate of Distance Education Guru Jambeshwar University of Science and Technology Hisar – Haryana. (2010). International Financial Institutions. Retrieved July 7, 2018 from http://www.ddegjust.ac.in/studymaterial/mba/fm305.pdf.Harris, P., & Fleisher, C. S. (2017). The SAGE handbook of international corporate and public affairs. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications.History.com Staff. (2009). Civil War. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.history.com/topics/americancivilwar/americancivilwarhistoryIncorporated, U. C. (n.d.). Universal Canning Incorporated  Home. Retrieved from http://www.universalcanning.com/International Monetary Fund. (2002). Globalization: A Framework for IMF Involvement. Retrieved July 7, 2018 from https://www.imf.org/external/np/exr/ib/2002/031502.htm#ii.International Monetary Fund. (2018). The IMF and the World Bank. Retrieved July 7, 2018 from http://www.imf.org/en/About/Factsheets/Sheets/2016/07/27/15/31/IMFWorldBankInternational Political Economy 5E (Oatley).pdf  PDF Drive. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.pdfdrive.net/internationalpoliticaleconomy5eoatleypdfe23881095.htmlMyers, J. (n.d.). Here's everything you need to know about the world's free trade areas. Retrieved from https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2016/05/worldfreetradeareaseverythingyouneedtoknow/(n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.www2.urc.com.ph/(n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.jollibee.com.ph/aboutus/New American Nation. (n.d.). Retrieved July 8, 2018, from http://www.americanforeignrelations.com/EN/MultinationalCorporationsWorldwarii.htmlRiggs, T. (2008). Everyday finance: Economics, personal money management, and entrepreneurship. Detroit: Gale Cengage Learning.Ritzer, G. (Ed.). (2007). The Blackwell Companion to globalization. Blackwell Publishing Ltd.Robson, P. (1998). The Economics of International Integration. Psychology Press.The Blackwell Companion to Globalization. (n.d.).Sahay, R. (2002). Globalization and the Role of the IMF. Retrieved July 7, 2018 from http://www.imf.org/external/country/IND/rr/2002/pdf/082802.pdfStaff, I. (2018, May 01). Corporation. Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/corporation.aspThe Corporation Code of The Philippines, sec. 2The power behind the Industrial Revolution. (2000, June 22). Retrieved July 8, 2018, from https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/sciencenews/4750891/ThepowerbehindtheIndustrialRevolution.htmlGlobal Economy and Market Integration Explained:hi there awesome thank you for clickingthis video because in this video i'll bediscussing to youwhat global economy is but before i getexcited i would like you to get a penand a piece of paper because i wouldlike you to jot down theconcepts that i'll be sharing in thisclip and i know you're ready so let'sbeginat the end of this lesson you shall beable toidentify and define what global economyis the significance of marketintegration as well as internationalorganizationsbesides that you are going to understandthe concept of sanction target etc soto begin our lessonlet's try to define what global economyis global economy refers to theinternational exchange ofgoods and services that is expressed inmonetaryunits of money meaning global economy isthe economic interactionbetween and among communities of anationand this interaction involves theexchange of the things that we own thethings that we sell or the things thatwe buy besides that it also includesinvestments from multinationalcorporationslabor migration and the flow offinancial capitalso meaning global economydescribes a worldwide economy orthe economy of every country in thisglobe making global economy asone great economic systemso for us to understand the interactionthat happens between nations orcountries we have to understand theconcept of market integration but whatis market integrationif you're gonna check the internet orbrowse google check youtube there are alot of videos orarticles describing or definingexplaining what global or marketintegrationhowever in our subject we are going touse the definition of robson 1998 whostates that market integration is astate of affairs or a process whichattempts to combine national economiesto create or make a larger economicregion so what is the meaning of thatmarket integration is all aboutcombining or bringing aboutnational or different countries into oneeconomy one example for that is europeanunion and the association of southeastasiannation as to why these organizations orthese countries participate orjoin or be part of this internationalorganizationthey have their different agenda orreasons perhaps to improve their gdp orto improve their economy for thedevelopmentof their countriesfor bettertrade for betteragreement or relationship with differentcountries which are all related toeconomic transactions between them andto other countries one reason as to whynational economies or countries wants tointegrate their markets into a largereconomic region is to have free tradebut what is a free trade free trade itis an agreement between countries ofwhich they can trade or import andexport their products withoutrestrictionsexample of those restrictions isum tariffs nontariff barriers alsoincludes quotas embargoesand sanctionsokay so meaningif that country or two countries havefree trade or part of a free trade areathey can basically selltheir products to each other withoutpaying any tariff but what is a tariffwhen we say tariff these are taxes orduties that has to be paid when we tryor when a country tries toexport or bring in their product to acountry let's say in the philippinesin the philippines whencountries will going to sell orexport they're going to delivertheir wine in the philippines thephilippine government will collect 53pesos per liter of thisum company or of that wine company okayso if you say in maybaor tax in every literthat is an example of a tariff while forembargo it is a government institutedprevention of export to a certaincountryum it'san import ban to a specificplace or state let's say in thephilippines in 2020 because ofa news stating thatchicken in brazil were actually infectedof the cuvee19disease and therefore one reaction tothat from the philippine government isto stopor to ban the entry of this poultryproductor products from brazil similarly in2021um the philippines also banned the entryof beef and cattle products again frombrazil because there was this mad comdiseasebrazil howeversecretary dar lifted this ban or embargobecausecompanies or poultry as well as farms inbrazil were able to presentevidences showing uhum umbeef and cattle in the philippines werenot infected with this mad con diseaseokay so that is an example of what wecall embargo so you are going to ban theentry of a specificum product or economic actionanother concept that is nonexistent ina free trade area is what we calleconomic sanction economic sanctionis a commercial or financial penaltiesapplied by a country or group ofcountriesagainst a targeted country or group orindividualsand reason for imposing economicsanction differ or varies it's like acase casetocase basis for exampleumthat country restricts theexport ofproducts coming from a specific countryfor examplenow that we understood the effects andsignificance of free tradeto the global economy and itsrelationship to market integrationnow let's try to seesome of theorganizations or agreementsor international cooperations around theworld which appliesfree trade or has free trade agreementnumber one on the list we have the usmcaor also known as the united statesmexico and canada agreement for examplethe united states can export theiragriculturalproducts like dairyvegetables or poultry products to canadathey don't have to pay any tariffs ortaxedand in response to that the unitedstateswill providenew access okay for canadian companiesor canadian individualstoumdairy products peanuts and sugarcontaining products and of course mexicohas benefits um to this agreement aswell india and canada and united statesmerondinadvantage or benefit from this agreementand one of which is that they can alsoexport their product to the unitedstates tax free becauseokay and it also helped boom theautomatic um auto manufacturing industryin mexicoor investment from thispartner compa a partnercountriesokay besides usmca there is also anotherfree trade area called association ofsoutheast asiannations free trade agreementlet's find outthis specific agreement was created in1992 with the aim to eliminate tradebarriers like tariffokayand to create a originalmarket and of course to promotecooperation betweenitsmemberstates okay so um according to thisagreement 99 of all goods are entirelyfree ebtaripalet's sayphilippines willimport or let's say the other way aroundon thailandexportsor productsin addition to usmca and after there'salso what we call mercur or the southerncommon market and this agreement iscomprised of these countriesthe two other free trade areas mercosuralso promotes free flow of goods andservices as well as people to eachmember statesnato and besides mercur there is alsowhat we callcommon market of eastern and southernafrica21 member states and the main purpose ofthis komesa or agreementisall about economic prosperity andintegrationlet's find outthis common market was established topromote regional integration throughtrade and development of naturalresources for the mutual benefit of eachmembers ibmum this common markethelp each is cooperate magdalen in thedevelopment of their natural resourcesin whichoperationsin addition to free trade areas we alsohave what we call partnership agreementsand one of which is the european unionpartnership natohowever in 2016um britain where the united kingdomexited or umaleseuropean unionimmigration sabinillah it was reportedthatunited kingdomapart from european uniontranspacific partnershipwith my discussion on trade agreementsand partnership italian andso there you have it awesome thanks forwatchingi hope to see you next time take careTHE GLOBAL INTERSTATE SYSTEMTHE GLOBAL INTERSTATE SYSTEMMain Objective•To be able to interpret what is the Global Interstate System•To be able to name a few types of Interstate System•To be able to adapt some knowledge from this topicGlobal Interstate SystemIt is the whole system of human interactions. The modern worldsystem is structured politically as an interstate system a system of competing and allying states. Political Scientists commonly call this the international system, and it is the main focus of the field of International Relations.Globalization and the Nation StatesGlobalization in the early years of the 21st century has not displaced the state. Max Weber, a German social theorist define state as a compulsory political organization with a centralized government that maintains a monopoly of the legitimate use of force within a certain territory. Hedley Bull, a 20th century international philosopher stated that states are independent political communities each of which possesses a government and asserts sovereignty in relation to a particular portion of the earth’s surface and a particular segment of the human populationThis means that government and constitutions come and go but states readily endure. The Nation on the other hand is an imagined political community and imagined as both inherently limited and sovereign.The State and the Economic InterdependenceThe rising momentum of global freemarket capitalism in the final decades of the 20th century, the accompanying rise in transnational enterprises, and the resulting disparities between easy flows of money and commodities across international borders and the legal barriers and logistical hurdles that keep most workers tied to their home communities are associated with globalization. Further, countries are compared to individual stocks where the states and their government are rewarded and punished similar to buying and selling shares of individual companies. States also have lost an important element of economic sovereignty and that neoliberalism is beyond contestation. Neoliberalism and Economic SovereigntyNeoliberalism is the intensification of the influence and dominance of capital. It is the elevation of capitalism as a mode of production into an ethic, a set of political imperatives, and a cultural logic. It is a project to strengthen, restore, or, in some cases, constitute anew the power of economic elites. It values market exchange as an ethic capable of acting as a guide to all human action and substituting for all previous held ethical beliefs. It emphasizes the significance of contractual relations in the marketplace. It also holds that the social good will be maximized by maximizing the reach and frequency market transactions, and it seeks to bring all human action into domain of the market.Economic sovereignty on the other hand is the power or national governments to make decisions independently of those made by other governments. Globalization as an increase in the international integration of markets for goods, services, capital, and labor, is also a counterpoint of national sovereignty. In a globalized world economy, governments have no alternative but to adopt neoliberal economic policies of privatization, deregulations, and reductions in public expenditures.Economic sovereigntyThere are four different concepts of sovereignty. These include: •International Legal Sovereignty It refers to the acceptance of a given state as a member of the international community. •Westphalian Sovereignty It is based on the principle that one sovereign state should not interfere in the domestic arrangements of another.•Interdependence Sovereignty It is the capacity and willingness to control flows of people, goods, and capital into and out of the country.•Domestic Sovereignty It is the capacity of a state to choose and implement policies within the territoryEconomic and Political Integration (European Integration)European integrationEuropean integration is the process of industrial, political, legal, economic, social and cultural integration of states wholly or partially in Europe. European integration has primarily come about through the European Union and its policiesEuropean Union (EU) is an international organization comprising 28 European countries and governing common economic, social, and security policies. In the early 21st century EU expanded into central and eastern Europe with the following members: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Economic integrationEconomic integration can be described as a process and a means by which group of countries strives to increase their level of welfare. It is an arrangement between different regions that often includes the reduction or elimination of trade barriers, and the coordination of monetary and fiscal policies. Reducing costs for both consumers and producers and increasing trade between the countries involved in the agreement are the aims of economic integration. Seven Stages of Economic Integration1. Preferential trading area (PTA) 2. Free trade area 3. Customs union 4. Common market 5. Economic union 6. Economic and monetary union 7. Complete economic integration Preferential Trade AreasPreferential Trade Areas (PTAs) happens when there’s an agreement on reducing or eliminating tariff (tax or duty to be paid on a particular class of imports or exports) barriers on selected goods imported from other members of countries within the geographical region or areas. Agreement can either be bilateral (between two countries), or multilateral (several countries). Free Trade Areas (FTAs) are created when two or more countries in a region agree to reduce or eliminate barriers to trade on all goods coming from other members. The North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is an example of such a free trade area, and includes the USA, Canada, and MexicoFree Trade AgreementsFree Trade Agreements (FTAs) or Preferential Trade Agreements (PTAs) eliminate import tariffs as well as import quotas between signatory countries. These agreements can be limited to a few sectors or can encompass all aspects of international trade. FTAs can also include formal mechanisms to resolve trade disputes. The North American Free Trade Agreement(NAFTA) is an example of such an arrangement.Customs UnionRemoval of tariff barriers between members, together with the acceptance of a common or unified external tariff against nonmembers is involved in the Custom Union. Single payment or duty is made by countries exporting to customs union. Goods inside the union can move freelywith no additional tariffs. Members shared tariff revenues while a small share is retained by the country that the collects the duty. Removing internal barriers to trade and requiring participating nations to harmonize their external policy as well as building a free trade area are put up by customs union. Common MarketOne major step towards economic integration is Common Market (CM). All barriers to the mobility of people, capital and other resources within the area in question, as well as eliminating nontariff barriers to trade, such as the regulatory treatment of The product standards are removed by CM aside from containing the provisions of a customs union. The extension of free trade from just tangible goods, to include all economic resources which means that all barriers are eliminated to allow the free movement of goods, services, capital, and labor, including removal of tariffs, and reduced nontariff barriers is the key feature of a common market. Economic and Monetary unionThe trading bloc that has both a common market between members, and a common trade policy towards nonmembers, although members are free to pursue independent macroeconomicpolicies is termed Economic Union. It requires coordinated monetary and fiscal policies as well as labor market, regional development, transportation, and industrial policies. In economic union the use of a common currency and a unified monetary policy is considered. The best example of Economic union is the European Union (EU). As a key stage towards complete integration, the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) involves a single economic market, a common trade policy, a single currency, and a common monetary policy. It represents a major step in the integration of EU economies. EMU involves the coordination of economic and fiscal policies, a common monetary policy and a common currency, the euro. EMU is a means to provide stabilityand for stronger, more sustainable, and inclusive growth across the euro area and the EU as a whole for the sake of improving the lives of EU citizens Complete Economic IntegrationComplete Economic Integration is the final stage of economic integration in which member states completely forego independence of both monetary and fiscal policies. States that participate in complete economic integration have no control of economic policy including economic trade rules. There is full monetary union where regulations regarding labor and capital are shared between member states and this includes a single currency. There is also a complete harmonization of fiscal policy which includes shared regulation of tax and benefit rates. Involvedin complete economic integration are single economic market, a common trade policy, a single currency, a common monetary policy, together with a single fiscal policy, including common tax and benefit rates or the complete harmonization of all policies, rates, and economic trade rules.Political integrationPolitical integration refers to the integration of components within political systems; the integration of political systems with economic, social, and other human systems; and the politicalprocesses by which social, economic, and political systems become integrated. Creating commonpolicy framework that creates equal conditions for the functions of the integrated parts of the economy is the aim of policy integration. Political integration is mainly based on welfare increasing effects of integrated policy making according to the Economics of European integration. It brings economic benefits by leading the recovery of effectiveness in policy making. Theories of European IntegrationNeofunctionalismThis theory focuses on the supranational institutions of the EU of which the main driving forces of integration are interest group activity at the European and national levels, political partyactivity, and the role of governments and supranational institutions. The European integration is mostly seen as an upper class driven process driven by national and international political and economic upper crusts. IntergovernmentalismThis theory provides a conceptual explanation of the European integration process. The main concept of the Intergovernmentalism is emphasizing on the role of national states in the European integration; in another words it argues that "European integration is driven by the interest and actions of nation states". This theory was suggested by Stanley Hoffmann.Liberal IntergovernmentalismThis a dominant political theory developed by Andrew Moravsik in1993 to explain European integration. Application of rational institutionalism to the field of European integrationis the aim of this theory. Moravcsik stated that 'statesociety relationsthe relationship of state to the domestic and transnational social context in which they are embeddedhave a fundamental impact on state behavior inworld politics and that the 'universal condition of world politics is globalization. New InstitutionalismThis theory emphasized the importance of institutions in the process of European integration. Its three key strands are: rational choice, sociological and historical. Multilevel GovernanceThis is a new theory of European integration. Writers Liesbet Hooghe and Gary Marks defined MLG as dispersion of authority across multiple levels of political governance. They stated that over the last fifty years, authority and sovereignty has moved away from national governments in Europe, not just to the supranational level with the EU, but also to subnational levels such as regional assemblies and local authoritiesTransnational Activism in StatesTransnational activism can be defined as the mobilization of collective claims by actors located in more than one country and/or addressing more than one national government and/or international governmental organization or another international actor. It is a social movements and other society organizations and individuals operating across state bordersSocial Media and the StateSocial media is a computerbased technology that facilitates the sharing of ideas and information and the building of virtual networks and communities. By design, social media is internet based and offers users easy electronic communication of personal information and other content, such as videos and photos. Users engage with social media via computer, tablet or smartphone via webbased software or web application, often utilizing it for messaging. The interstate system is a concept used within worldsystems theory to describe the system of state relationships that arose either as a concomitant process or as a consequence of the development of the capitalist worldsystem over the course of the "long" 16th century. The theory of the interstate system holds that all states are defined through their relationship to other states or through participation in the world economy, and that divisions between states help to divide the world into a core, periphery and semiperiphery.ContentsConceptsDevelopment of an interstate systemThe Peace of Westphalia marked an important restructure of the interstate system, including the widespread recognition of the sovereignty of the United Provinces, the first global hegemon.Immanuel Wallerstein wrote that the development of a capitalist worldeconomy created all of the major institutions of the modern world, including social classes, nations, households and states. These institutions also created each other, as nations, classes, and households came to be defined by their relations to the state, and were subsequently able to shape the state. Out of this structural chaos on a substate level, the basic elements of a state could emerge, but states could only gain conscious recognition when other states were able to define and relate to them.To Wallerstein, there were no concrete rules about what exactly constitutes an individual state beyond this, as there were so many exceptions to various indicators of statehood. Juridical sovereignty could range from total to nil, as could the state's ability to impose decisions, project power, or control the flows of capital, commodities and labor. There were also no clear rules about which group controlled the state, as various groups located inside, outside, and across the states’ frontiers could seek to increase or decrease state power in order to better profit from a worldeconomy.While on the level of individual states, almost nothing remained so stable as to assist with a definition of statehood, Wallerstein claimed that the "relative power continuum of stronger and weaker states has remained relatively unchanged over 400odd years." While hegemons came and went, the basic division of the world into core and periphery has persisted. This implied to Wallerstein that while there is no universal state system, an interstate system had developed out of the sum of state actions, which existed to reinforce certain rules and preconditions of statehood. These rules included maintaining consistent relations of production, and regulating the flow of capital, commodities and labor across borders to maintain the price structures of the global market. If weak states attempt to rewrite these rules as they prefer them, strong states will typically intervene to rectify the situation.The ideology of the interstate system is sovereign equality, and while the system generally presents a set of constraints on the power of individual states, states within the system are "neither sovereign nor equal." Not only do strong states impose their will on weak states, strong states also impose limitations upon other strong states, and tend to seek strengthened international rules, since enforcing consequences for broken rules can be highly beneficial and confer comparative advantages.Relationship to nation and classWallerstein notes that class conflict within the context of an interstate system tends to take the form of creating institutions to affect state decisions, and that these institutions tend to be created within the boundaries of the state, and with a specific national scope. This has the effect of adding to the definiteness of state structures, and giving a national character to class conflict.Both the proletariat and bourgeoisie can find benefits and drawbacks to defining themselves as "world classes." For example, the bourgeoisie has an interest in defining itself as a world class to overcome national barriers to trade, but also has an interest in tying itself to various state machineries to gain comparative advantages and monopoly privileges. Likewise the proletariat has an interest in uniting on a world scale to better combat internationally mobile capital, however the mechanisms most readily available for improving local conditions exist in statebased organizations. The result is that both classes express consciousness at a level which does not reflect their economic role within a worldeconomy. For this reason, class conflict is often expressed in other social terms, such as through bourgeois or revolutionary nationalism.Role in hegemonies and liberalismWhile Wallerstein said that "mnipotence does not exist within the interstate system," he did note that in "rare and unstable" instances, states could aspire to a hegemony over the world system. This generally requires a combined agroindustrial, commercial, and financial edge over their rivals, which has only been achieved by the Dutch Republic (16201672), the United Kingdom (18151873), and the United States (19451967). Such hegemonies coincide with expansions and contractions in the worldeconomy, which Wallerstein explained through Kondratiev waves.Once a hegemon has achieved control over the interstate system, they assume world "responsibilities" to maintain the interstate system, restricting conflicts between entrepreneurial, bureaucratic and working class strata by exercising power in a "liberal" form. This takes the form of a greater enforcement of interstate rules to maintain liberal norms, as well as the diplomatic, military, political, ideological, and cultural power of the hegemon. This delegitimizes the efforts of other state machineries to act against the hegemonic power, but is also selfdefeating, in that it promotes the spread of technological expertise to other powers, and rising wages in the hegemon tends to decrease the competitiveness of its labor power.Role in state socialist economiesWorldsystems theorists have used the interstate system to explain the perceived failures of the state socialist economies of the eastern bloc in abolishing commodity fetishism and other negative effects of a capitalist worldeconomy at the national level. This has included claims that since an interstate system is the basis of a competitive commodity economy at a system level, then no single state is capable of totally ending commodity exchange across its borders without failing to maintain state competitiveness. Wallerstein believed that the fact that the eastern bloc had largely avoided disrupting the world economy was proof of the effectiveness of the interstate system in disincentivizing global class conflict.CriticismWallerstein's use of the interstate system to explain international relations was criticised by a number of Western Marxists and nonMarxists for what they saw as economism, or for failing to account for "the relative autonomy of the state" from economic factors, claiming that Wallerstein saw the interstate system as a mechanical consequence of capital accumulation. While Wallerstein was quite clear that the interstate system followed the development of a worldeconomy, and state policies largely reflected internal pressures from economic actors, other worldsystems theorists like Christopher ChaseDunn view the interstate system and worldeconomy as concomitant processes with no clear causal priority.Global Interstate Systemhello students we are here once againin our discussion about the contemporaryworldand i am here i am sam cairo carlilloyour teacher for the contemporary worldlet's start our discussionso for our discussion thistopic is about the global interstatesystemwhat does it mean by global interstatesystemwhen we are talking about globalinterstate systemwe have already discussed about theeconomic globalization that is happeningto the modern world or to thecontemporary worldwhich is the modern world system on howeconomic capital and consumption ofgoodsis transferred from one state to theother statehowever here in the global interstatesystemlet's try to analyze the politicalglobalizationso in discussing the global interstatesystemwe have to discuss the politicalglobalizationwhat does it mean by politicalglobalization political globalizationis the amount of political cooperationthere between countries meaning to saythisis this is the test or thisis how how countries or states or evennations cooperate with each otherfor a common good or how could theycommunicate for the economy how couldtheycommunicate for their socializationthat'spolitical globalization it means aboutcooperation so thereare four key attributesfor world politics to better understandthe global interstate systemwe have to we have to affirm on thisfour key attributes in the worldpoliticsfirst is that there are statesthat are independent from each othertake note of it there are independentwith each othersince sincethese states are very unique and thusthese states can stand on its ownthey have the this uniquecharacteristics like these states canstand becauseof their stable economy the other statescan stand because they have thisraw resources which can be manipulatedby strong statesthose those are independent from eachotherno one can hamper their independencebecause they can stand on its ownnext attribute is that these statesinteract with one another throughdiplomacythe friendship like any other thingslike ushuman beings we call or we interact witheach otherand we call it we call ourselves asfriendshowever in the world politics and thusin the global interstate systemin that system alone in that systemalonewe could say that their friendship iscalled diplomacythey interact in a diplomatic way theydon't reallythey don't get engaged with wars easilyhowever they interact through adiplomatic waydiplomats this are wellversedresponsible of their own actionsthat's diplomacynext attribute is internationalorganization existsto facilitate these interactions takenoteas what you've discussed as what we havediscussed we have discussed thatinternational organizations existas part of the structures ofglobalizationthus the global interstate system isalsopart of the um structure ofglobalizationthus here in the in the globalinterstate systeminternational organizations exist tofacilitate their interactionyes they have already the diplomacy thatwe call it and those who facilitate thediplomatic relationsamong these states or these countriesthusthe facilitator the mediator and thenegotiatorof this one are internationalorganizations as we have called itinternational organizations is readyto become the bridge of one state to theother statethat's it that's their interaction andlastly to take note about the globalinterstate systemis that the attribute that beyondfacilitating meeting among these statesthese international organizations alsotake lives on their ownaside from being the bridge being thefacilitatorthey think they have their own livesthey have their owncharacter they have their own entitythey have their own personathey can stand on its own like any otherstatesright like um it is a supranationalorganization that can stand on its ownlike nato or the north atlantic treatyorganizationwho facilitates who facilitates umnorth american countries under treatiesand agreementslike their military agreements so thosewere just a few attributes that we couldaffirm aboutfull um global interstate system thus aswe discuss global interstate systemlet us take note that this is part ofthe structuresof globalization that this structuremainly part because of its politicalglobalizationbecause it's the drive through towardspoliticalglobalization now let's go over withthis onein discussing the global interstatesystem it is best to understandwhat is the difference between stateversus nationbecause sometimes we interchangeably usethese terms as being synonymous witheach otherhowever there is a big difference whenwe are talking about stateor end mission when we are talking aboutwhen we are talking aboutstate it's a political term okay takenote when we are talking about stateit's a political termthus when we are also talking about itit hasfour essential elements that theseelementscould not or if one of these elementswill is not present therefore a statecannot exist okay so thisare the four essential elements first isthe peopleterritory government and its sovereigntywhat does it mean by people when we aretalking about peoplethis are your inhabitants inhabitantsliving inhabitants livingwithin the state this are theinhabitantslike us we are the people we are theinhabitants of thisum state next partis your territory what does it mean byterritoryit includes only affectsonly a fixed proportion a fixedproportionof land over the jurisdiction of thestate so we need to saythis is our territory as a statethe philippines the archaeological umarchipelagic landscape of thephilippines is ourterritory thus there is a question isthere anis there a requirement is there arequirementthat is needed for fora place or a place or a specificland to become a state even though it issmall or it'slarge is there a requirement the answeris no there is no requirementterritorial requirement as long as theterritorycan suffice or can feed the peopleon its jurisdiction againthere is no specific like if it is smallit's good as long as even though it'ssmallit's good as long as these territorycan suffice the needs of its peoplewe can grow crops we can grow food onthis oneand that's okay next stop is thegovernmentwhat is the government this is theagencythrough which the will of the state isformulatedwe need to say the will or the need ofthe statethe need of the state is um translatedor formulated this is the agency like usand who led the government the peoplethus the people is the government aloneso this is the agency next one issovereignty sovereigntysovereignty okay sorry sovereigntyis is the term may be defined as thesupremepower of the state meaning to say thisis the power of the stateeven though you have a people eventhough you have a territoryand you have an agency which is thegovernment but you don't have the powertherefore you don't exist as a stateso this is the supreme power this is thepower given to a statethis is the supreme court given to astate by whomby the family of nations thus statestate is sovereignty comprises of twotypes two types of sovereignty first isthe internal sovereignty and the secondpart is external sovereigntyfrom the word itself internalsovereignty meant to saythis is the power this is the powerof the state to control and to commandits people within its territorythus the other one is externalsovereignty from the word itselfexternalmeaning to say this is the power of theof the state to interact from one stateto the ano to others so that issovereigntythus sovereignty also called as theindependenceindependence rise when when we can standon our ownand that is what they call us oursovereignty sometimes it's calledindependence now another feature aboutstate is thatit does not exist if one element islackingas i have told you if these fourelementsexist therefore state exists but if oneelement doesnot um on there like for example there'snosovereignty or even government existingthereforestate does not exista good example of this one isphilippines united states great britainthis our countries or this are statesthat we could call statesright okay and going back to thesovereigntyum let's try to discuss this one laternowlet's go to nation what does it mean bynationcomparing to state nation is a politicalis an ethnic term while state is apolitical term it's an ethnic termtherefore it is a shared commoncharacteristicslike the characteristics that you sharelike you havethe same history or origin you have thesame cultureyou have the same religion you have thesame languagetherefore you can be called as a nationregardlessif this characteristics exist or notbut you have one like for example youonly have onehistory then therefore you can you canbe called asa nation consists of many statesit's not it's not like like the statealonethe state alone it's only one but nationis consists of many states a very goodexampleis american nation european nationarab nation so example of this oneis this one the first um the firstamericans these are the indians theindians the one that we callone little two little three littleindians this are the first americansthey are composedof different nations a very good exampleanother exampleis asiya nation aseanthe asia we are philippines is part of anation because we belong to one originand that is one and that is we are fromthe malayan raceand we belong also to umone continent which is asia that's whywe call it as a cnaright and another term to be usedis the combination of the two and wecalled it as a nation statethis is where a cultural group or anationand it is also a state and maybe inaddition bea sovereign state so so this isthis is how we define nation statephilippines is a nation state americaunited states of america is a nationstate because it's a melting potit's a melting pot of american raceswhich is they have the common culturalgroupthus they also belong to they have alsoa sovereign rightand it has four elements of a statethat's why it's calledthe nation state so to furtherunderstand what's the difference betweenstate and nation its elements and itscharacteristicsi have here an example to best examineto best examine what's the difference ofthis one because it's better tounderstand that the global interstatesystemmust be first have labels take noteyou should know what's your labelbecause if you don't know what yourlabeltherefore you cannot and you cannotinteractin the globalization world or in thecontemporary worldso let's have it here as you can seethis is this picture is a picturefrom rome rome italy canwe consider rome as a state or a nationwhat do you think so let'stry to analyze the four essentialelementsof a state rightcan we consider rome as a state let'stry to analyze the fouressential elements first isthis is the vatican city okaythis is commonly the vatican city can weconsidervatican city let's try to analyze thisessential elements let's try topeople as of 2020it has a population of 801 peopleaccording to the latest estimates fromthe un's world population populationprospectsdo we have any requirements do we haveany requirement according tointernational lawthat there should be um there should bethere should be this amount of peoplecomprises for a state the answer is norightas long as these people can multiplyand thus we thus they can formulatetheirown government this is the people sotherefore the one at people as anelement of the stateexists next stop is territoryconsidering that vatican is only a cityof rome in italyit has an area outside the boundary ofwestern romeof only 0.7square mile or 0.44 squarekilometer it would only fit a resultpark in manila so again let's try to ahlet's try to go back to the definitionof the territoryis there is there a specific is there aspecificum rules or guidelines of a specificterritoryno as long as they can suffice the needsof its peopleeven though it's small it still existsas aterritory now let's go to the governmentis vatican city has a governmentyes it has it is governed in anabsolute monarchy with the popeas the head of its governmentand vatican means its own euros takenote it has itthey have their own money system bringits own stampsand issues passports and license payplates so they have their own andoperates media outlets and it hasits own flag and them therefore theyexist they have their own governmentso therefore it exists for the fourelements we have onlywe are we have three of it now let's goto the last partsovereignty is vatican city has asovereigntyor the supreme power or the independencelet's try to look for its internalsovereigntyyes it has internal sovereignty becauseit was created in 1929 to providea territorial identity for the holy seein rome they have already beenrecognizedthat they can exist on their owninternallyso the other sovereignty internetnow let's go to the external sovereigntythe state of vatican city is recognizedas the national territory under theinternational lawso therefore vatican city has externalsovereignty because it's recognizedwe're recognized by the way thesovereigntyit is recognized by the family family ofnations therefore sovereignty hereso when the external sovereignty existsso therefore vatican has its ownsovereignty thus vatican completed thefour essential elements of the statetherefore vatican can be considered as astate even thoughit is a city now let's try to look atthisanother example this istaiwan taiwancan we consider taiwan asa statenow let's go back to the four essentialelementsfirst is people taiwan hasby one 2020 population is estimatedat 23 23816 775people at media according to the unitednations databigger than bigger than vatican citythereforethey could exist territorythe main island of taiwan has an area of35 808 square kilometersso bigger bigger and bigger and biggerthan taiwan bigger than being in vaticancityso therefore they could exist becausethey have their own territoryno do they have the government they'reyes they have their own governmentthey have a multiparty democracy with asemipresidentialsystem under people's republic ofchina taiwan's political system has someof traits offederal system like united statesso therefore they have their owngovernment they can existright now they're very muchcrucial do they have their ownsovereigntylet's try to look at their internalsovereigntytaiwan's sovereignty belongs to chinaeven though they have their owngovernment but who controls the internalinternal internal affairs is chinatherefore they don't have their internalsovereignty now let's try to do externalsovereigntychina also claims taiwan as part of itsterritoryand denies that want is a sovereignstatechina is a dominant about preventingrecognitionof taiwan as a sovereign state and itsmembership to the united nations systemtherefore even even the um family ofnations doesn't recognizetaiwan as a sovereign state so there isnoexternal sovereignty and thereforetaiwan it has no sovereigntyso going back to the rules if oneessential element of a statedoes not exist therefore it is notconsidered as a stateso taiwan is not a stateokay okayin the global interstate system in thepolitical globalization that ishappening to the worldthere are effects of globalization inthe government as we have discussedso let's go with the effectsof the governmenteffects of globalization on thegovernment let us try to look at thisonelet's try to first discuss about aboutthe positive effects according tomuhammadanin 2001 that globalization's positiveeffectis first in communication we havethe discovery of the internet and thusremarkable it is remarkable of theheightsof the number of users number of usersand subscribers of the internetas we all know that communicationscommunications todayis on our tip of our handsright next stop iseducation education today has an easyaccess of ideas and information frombest libraries around the globethat education is like communication isin the tip of our handswe can now we can now create our ownclassroom virtually and that is what wecall online classes as we are doingtodayso that's educationnext stop is media coveragewe are now we are media are now verypowerful becausewe can now we cannot grasp or we cannotget and we are not aware with issuesnot just on our communities butfor the philip for the whole philippinesor your country as a wholeor even um parts of the globe or evenfrom outside of the countrieswe can know what are their statusregarding with their healthissues gender environment or inequalitythis are the positive effects in termsof media coveragenext up is culture we tend towe tend to um empatheticand we tend to be sympathetic onothers culture because like mediacoverage we are become aware with uhwith each other's culture and heritageright better understanding of theculturewhen our resources we become growing intheinterdependence among countries ascountries need natural andhuman resources and capital take notethat resources comes from differentcountries therefore we becomeinterdependent we relyfrom other countries as we go back withthe modern world systemhow could we give how our raw materialsbetransformed from the peripherysemiperiphery to the coreso that's our resources now through ourinvestments our investments become largeand our investments doesn't go beyondthe boundaries of our countriesso there are a lot of investment in thatand thus foreign exchange and foreignentitiesare coming to our countries to investand this creates morejobs more profits and more capital toour incometo our country and those boost oureconomyand then lastly is competition thecompetition becomesglobal and local corporations improvedtheir products and services because theycompete globallyright so we improved our our simplebooksour simple our simple pens our simplephones we tend to improvise and createthis one so that we could competeglobally with the global competitionbecomes higher for our economy becomesmore active and driven towardsthe betterment of each countries andstatesso those were positive effects howevergazley also identified negative effectsfirst is culture because it challengeda challenge and culture through theculture and language which is languagewipes out and reshapes the sense ofidentityof many individuals especiallythe migrants we tend to change ouridentityjust like our language as ghazidentifiedlanguage as being one of theindicators that the negative effects canchange the culture like we changed ourdeathidentity because of our foreigninfluence likeour fashion today here in thephilippines we tend tochange our fashion because we tend toadopt from the western fashion or evenon the korean fashion because that'sthe trend now and that's the effect ofrevalidationthe vanishing of one culture of acountrynext is developing countriescorporations have tendency to causedamage to the environment and the globalpillageinstead of global village if you couldstill recallthat canada dumped their garbages herein our countrythat's the sign of how how theseum how these umcountries develop countries try to bullyus they tend to they tend to pillageour own our own countries instead ofcreating global villageit widens the gap between richand poor yes we will know that there isa positive effecteffects of globalization whoever therich becomes richer and the poor becomespoorerif we don't strive as a nation that'swhy it widens the gap nextis religion religious values lose theirinfluence on people's behavior due tothe promotionof pure secular values and theliberation of thoughts that's whyreligion as part of the culture tends tobecomeum to become not visible because we tendto adoptwith other with other liberationthoughtslastly morals morals people wasting alot of timeon internet for unnecessary purposesunnecessary purposes due to lack ofparental guidancea lot of criminalities have emerged inthe present timesmoral stand because we advanceourselves family we tend toto vanish the family systemand criminalities arise when thesekids this youth are not beenum not been guided or evenbeen thought of what is right and wrongnext up is international politicscountries have individualistic and triesto defend their ownnational interests and globally yes weclaimthat we have interdependence amongstates howeverdue to the negative effects ofglobalizationthe politics within the internationalrealmor the international arenahave become high and they defend theytry to defend theirown national interests next one iseconomy economy in which countrieseconomies collapsedue to the emergence of globalcorporations thatoffer cheaper products and services theemergence of electronic tradeand online businesses because of theadvancementof technology and thus the creation ofglobalizationwe tend to um we tend to umwe tend to adopt with a new world likefor examplein the united states some of thefactoriesor even some of the storeswere closed because everything goesonlineeverything goes online and just a tipand just a click of your hands youcannot orderyour favorite food your clothes yourshoesand everything online you are you're notyou will not goto the physical store but you just butjust by the by the use of your phone youcan nowbuy online and some of the corporationscannot compete on this one like forexamplethe forever 21 forever 21 asa fashion outlets can nottend to close their branches around theglobe becausethey cannot compete with the emergingcompetitions onlinelast stop is science the new scientificrevolutionsin many fields the genetic geneticallymodified organisms or gmoand cloning emerged we have advancedand thus cloning cloning is making likefor example maybe sooner or later oryears from nowwe could have we could have doublegunnerwe have cloned we are cloned by someoneor by a scientistokay so those were just some of thenegative effectsof globalization nowlet's in the global interstate systemit's better to understandwhat's the difference ofinternationalism and globalismnow first what is internationalismnations decide to cooperate with oneanotherin political economic and culturalaspects for promotionof common good so that's internationalassetwhile globalism globalismglobalism is the beliefthat people goods and informationought to be able to cross nationalbordersfreely it is the attitude of putting theinterests of the entire worldabove the interest of individual nationsso there are two types of internationallessonthere is an hegemonic internationalismliberal internationalism revolutionaryinternationalismsocialist internationalism and theirattacks of globalismeconomic globalism environmentalglobalismmilitary globalism social and culturalglobalismso here what's the difference betweeninternationalism and globalismas you can see internationalism is onthe scale of nations decideto cooperate while globalismis the interest of the individualmeaning to say internationalism is thescaleof what is for the common good whileglobalismis the the skill of the individualknee shots it's being individualisticnow let's try to discuss about the typesofinternationalism there are four types ofinternationalismlet's start with hegemonicinternationalismthe dominance of one country over anation or stateor we call it as hegemonsor this arethis are the ruler of the world as youcan see here on the picture this issupermanand captain america which was madeby the united states to impose tous that they are the captain americathey are the supermanthey are the superherothat can protect us in the wholeworld that's hegemonichowever now china is trying to becomethe hegemonicin terms of economynow let's call let's call about liberalinternational lessonwhen we say liberal internationalismnation statesshould give some of their freedoms someof their sovereigntytheir power and establish a continuouslygrowing global systemworking together to prevent lawlessnessin the world or to prevent what topreventnazis to create again or to preventum world war one or world war two that'swhy countrieshave liberal internationalism we giveour powers andwe create we create organizations suchasun asean and the europeanunion next one isrevolutionary internationalismof which conflict in the society are dueto international factorsand alliances as you can see this isthe great adult hitler of the naziswho initiated the world war iiand thus lose a lot of lives he wasconsideredthe greatest antagonistof the world history soin conflict in the society are due tointernational factors that for exampledue to the creation of the alliances ofthe nazisthe axis versus the allied powerswe created world war iinext one is the socialistinternationalismof which workingclass nationsunite to protect themselves againstexploitsabuses and oppressions done by thecapitalistclass as you can see due to socialistinternationalism we have already createdsocial classes like we have the lowerclassthe middle class and the upper classhoweverthere is uh there is thereis um working classes of which they trytoum eradicate or erase the exploitationsand abuses committedby the capitalist classes rightnext stop dimension ofglobal dimensions of globalism we'vealready discussed aboutinternationalisms internationalism nowlet's go toglobalism there are also four dimensionsofglobalism first is economic globalglobalismthe longdistance flows of goodsservices capitaland information that accompany marketexchangemeaning to say that this economic globalglobalism are nowgoing going easier aswe um as we as we connectmore bridges and making more bridges forthesegoods and services right next up isenvironment the distant transportationof materials inariel fluvial and terrestrial aspectsenvironmental globalism tend tochange the landscape since we createddifferent transportations and we couldeasily go from one place to the otherplacewhich just we're just arriving rightit's not like before that we tend to goto go for cebu fora day just to ride in a boat but wecould rideum a plane just for an hour and we areon our destinations like cebu cityso that's the environmental globalismnowmilitary globalism the long distancenetworksin which force and the threat orcompromise of force is deployedmilitary globalism is very rampant todaybecause military globalism isis very rampant because the moremilitary equipments thestronger military you are the powerfulcountry you are that's whythe picture depicts here that china andand and us is trying to competemilitarilybecause they want to prove that they arewho they arebecomes the hegemons the most powerfulcountryin the world today now lastlyis the social globalismsocial and cultural globalism themovement ofinformation ideas images and people whocarries thesepeople themselves we try to changealready the landscapelike here the kpop that we are doingthe kpop the original kpop the blackpaintof course the girls generationthe dynamite and the other kpoporganization of course who would havethought to anyoneright so that's itthat's that'sthe global interstate system we havealready discussed how politicaland social um social how politicalglobalization haveshaped the contemporary worldso that's it everyone CONTEMPORARY GLOBAL GOVERNANCEGlobal governance is a purposeful order that emerges from institutions, processes, norms, formal agreements, and informal mechanisms that regulate action for a common good. Global governance encompasses activity at the international, transnational, and regional levels, and refers to activities in the public and private sectors that transcend national boundaries. In this conception of global governance, cooperative action is based on rights and rules that are enforced through a combination of financial and moral incentives. In the absence of a single authoritative institution or world government structure, global governance is comprised of elements and methods from both the public and private sectors. These basic elements include agreed upon standards, evolving norms based on shared values, and directives issued and enforced by states. Methods of global governance include harmonization of laws among states, international regimes, global policy issue networks, and hybrid institutions that combine functions of state agencies and private sector organizations. The concept of global governance raises two sets of, as yet, unresolved issues. One has to do with claims of the legitimate exercise of authority, the other with democratic values. In contrast to theories of governance at local and national levels, a social contract between citizens and institutions of global governance has not been developed sufficiently to constitute a sufficient basis for legitimacy. In its current conception, global governance implies democratic governance. However, the reliance on scientific and professional bodies to set standards, rules, and procedures, on bureaucratic agencies of the state to implement policies, and on voluntary organizations to monitor compliance, none of which are based on democratic principles of representation or equal participation, raises questions about the compatibility of democratic values and the concept of global governance.Global governance is understood as “…the way in which global affairs are managed. As there is no global government, global governance typically involves a range of actors including states, as well as regional and international organizations. However, a single organization may nominally be given the lead role on an issue, for example the World Trade Organization in world trade affairs. Thus global governance is thought to be an international process of consensusforming which generates guidelines and agreements that affect national governments and international corporations. Examples of such consensus would include WHO policies on health issues” (WHO, 2015).Global governance, thus, aids in working through the myriad of issues within the international system.Thakur & Weiss (2015) further explain that “There is no government for the world. Yet, on any given day, mail is delivered across borders; people travel from one country to another via a variety of transport modes; goods and services are freighted across land, air, sea, and cyberspace; and a whole range of other crossborder activities take place in reasonable expectation of safety and security for the people, groups, firms, and governments involved. Disruptions and threats are rare…This immediately raises a puzzle: How is the world governed even in the absence of a world government in order to produce norms, codes of conduct, and regulatory, surveillance, and compliance instruments? How are values allocated quasiauthoritatively for the world, and as accepted as such, without a government to rule the world?The answer…lies in global governance. It is the sum of laws, norms, policies, and institutions that define, constitute, and mediate relations between citizens, societies, markets, and states in the international system–the wielders and objects of the exercise of international public power.”However, there exist certain lacunae within the system, as identified by the World Health Organization (2015), such as:“The jurisdictional gap, between the increasing need for global governance in many areas – such as health – and the lack of an authority with the power, or jurisdiction, to take action.The incentive gap, between the need for international cooperation and the motivation to undertake it. The incentive gap is said to be closing as globalization provides increasing impetus for countries to cooperate. However, there are concerns that, as Africa lags further behind economically, its influence on global governance processes will diminish.The participation gap, which refers to the fact that international cooperation remains primarily the affair of governments, leaving civil society groups on the fringes of policymaking. On the other hand, globalization of communication is facilitating the development of global civil society movements.”Global governance, then, is aimed at negotiating responses to problems that affect more than one state or region. Global governance can be considered the response to issues arising from the world´s increasing interconnectivity, and the need for and importance of a process to designate laws, rules, or regulations governing political, economic, social and cultural issues, and which are to be used on a global scale.Global governance refers to institutions that coordinate the behavior of transnational actors, facilitate cooperation, resolve disputes, and alleviate collective action problems. Global governance broadly entails making, monitoring, and enforcing rules. Within global governance, a variety of types of actors – not just states – exercise power. Governance is thus broader than government.Global governance began in the mid19th century. It became particularly prominent in the aftermath of World War I, and more so after the end of World War II. Since World War II, the number of international organizations has increased substantially. The number of actors (whether they be states, nongovernmental organizations, firms, and epistemic communities) who are involved in governance relationships has also increased substantially.Various terms have been used for the dynamics of global governance, such as complex interdependence, international regimes, multilevel governance, global constitutionalism, and ordered anarchy.ContentsDefinitionThe term world governance is broadly used to designate all regulations intended for organization and centralization of human societies on a global scale. The Forum for a new World Governance defines world governance simply as "collective management of the planet". Woodrow Wilson's League of Nations, the predecessor of the United Nations, was one of the first organizations to promote global governance.Traditionally, government has been associated with "governing", or with political authority, institutions, and, ultimately, control. Governance denotes a process through which institutions coordinate and control independent social relations, and that have the ability to enforce their decisions. However, authors like James Rosenau have also used "governance" to denote the regulation of interdependent relations in the absence of an overarching political authority, such as in the international system. Some now speak of the development of "global public policy".Adil Najam, a scholar on the subject at the Pardee School of Global Studies, Boston University has defined global governance simply as "the management of global processes in the absence of global government." According to Thomas G. Weiss, director of the Ralph Bunche Institute for International Studies at the Graduate Center (CUNY) and editor (2000–05) of the journal Global Governance: A Review of Multilateralism and International Organizations, "'Global governance'—which can be good, bad, or indifferent—refers to concrete cooperative problemsolving arrangements, many of which increasingly involve not only the United Nations of states but also 'other UNs,' namely international secretariats and other nonstate actors." In other words, global governance refers to the way in which global affairs are managed.States are more likely to formally include civil society organizations (CSOs) in order to avoid a potential legitimacy advantage of their counterparts and to enhance domestic legitimacy if the following two conditions apply: first if they are more central to the global governance network; and second, if other states formally include CSOs as well. Thus, while government choices concerning whether to involve formally CSOs in global climate policy are obviously driven to a considerable degree by domestic factors, the authors concentrate on international network effects.The definition is flexible in scope, applying to general subjects such as global security and order or to specific documents and agreements such as the World Health Organization's Code on the Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes. The definition applies whether the participation is bilateral (e.g. an agreement to regulate usage of a river flowing in two countries), functionspecific (e.g. a commodity agreement), regional (e.g. the Treaty of Tlatelolco), or global (e.g. the NonProliferation Treaty). These "cooperative problemsolving arrangements" may be formal, taking the shape of laws or formally constituted institutions for a variety of actors (such as state authorities, intergovernmental organizations (IGOs), nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), private sector entities, other civil society actors, and individuals) to manage collective affairs. They may also be informal (as in the case of practices or guidelines) or ad hoc entities (as in the case of coalitions).However, a single organization may take the nominal lead on an issue, for example the World Trade Organization (WTO) in world trade affairs. Therefore, global governance is thought to be an international process of consensusforming which generates guidelines and agreements that affect national governments and international corporations. Examples of such consensus would include WTO policies on health issues.The WTO is needed when establishing a regulatory guide in decisionmaking, the Global Administrative Law is active in going handinhand with WTO. They promote global principles when involving accountability, transparency, and legitimacy when making decisions involving more than one country or state. This is necessary to prevent future disputes between states.In short, global governance may be defined as "the complex of formal and informal institutions, mechanisms, relationships, and processes between and among states, markets, citizens and organizations, both inter and nongovernmental, through which collective interests on the global plane are articulated, Duties, obligations and privileges are established, and differences are mediated through educated professionals."Titus Alexander, author of Unravelling Global Apartheid, an Overview of World Politics, has described the current institutions of global governance as a system of global apartheid, with numerous parallels with minority rule in the formal and informal structures of South Africa before 1991.UsageWhile attempts of intergovernmental coordination of policymaking can be traced back to ancient times, comprehensive search for effective formats of international coordination and cooperation truly began after the end of the WWI. It was during that postwar period that some of the still existing international institutions (or their immediate predecessors) were founded. Among thinkers who made major contributions to the period discussions on the goals and forms of international governance and policy coordination were J.M. Keynes with his "The Economic Consequences of the Peace" and G. Cassel with his works on the postwar development of the global monetary system.The dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 marked the end of a long period of international history based on a policy of balance of powers. Since this historic event, the planet has entered a phase of geostrategic breakdown. The nationalsecurity model, for example, while still in place for most governments, is gradually giving way to an emerging collective conscience that extends beyond the restricted framework it represents.The postCold War world of the 1990s saw a new paradigm emerge based on a number of issues:The growing idea of globalization and the subsequent weakening of nationstates points to transferring regulation to a global level instruments;NonState actors became intensely involved after the Cold War. This helped speed up economies and create allies for one another while integrating states after the economy crash. They used global governance as a tool to solve problems between states and to create a guide to prevent another cold war from breaking out,An intensification of environmental concerns, which received multilateral endorsement at the Earth Summit. The Summit issues, relating to the climate and biodiversity, symbolized a new approach that was soon to be expressed conceptually by the term Global Commons;The emergence of conflicts over standards: trade and the environment, trade and property rights, trade and public health. These conflicts continued the traditional debate over the social effects of macroeconomic stabilization policies, and raised the question of arbitration among equally legitimate objectives in a compartmentalized governance system where the major areas of interdependence are each entrusted to a specialized international institution. Although often limited in scope, these conflicts are nevertheless symbolically powerful, as they raise the question of the principles and institutions of arbitration;An increased questioning of international standards and institutions by developing countries, which, having entered the global economy, find it hard to accept that industrialized countries hold onto power and give preference to their own interests. The challenge also comes from civil society, which considers that the international governance system has become the real seat of power and which rejects both its principles and procedures. Although these two lines of criticism often have conflicting beliefs and goals, they have been known to join in order to oppose the dominance of developed countries and major institutions, as demonstrated symbolically by the failure of the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference of 1999.TechniqueGlobal governance can be roughly divided into four stages:agendasetting;policymaking,implementation and enforcement, andevaluation, monitoring, and adjudication.World authorities including international organizations and corporations achieve deference to their agenda through different means. Authority can derive from institutional status, expertise, moral authority, capacity, or perceived competence. The 2030 Agenda also employs these strategies in its advocacy for strong institutions embodied by Sustainable Development Goal 16.ThemesIn its initial phase, world governance was able to draw on themes inherited from geopolitics and the theory of international relations, such as peace, defense, geostrategy, diplomatic relations, and trade relations. But as globalization progresses and the number of interdependencies increases, the global level is also highly relevant to a far wider range of subjects. Following are a number of examples.Environmental governance and managing the planet"The crisis brought about by the accelerated pace and the probably irreversible character of the effect of human activities on nature requires collective answers from governments and citizens. Nature ignores political and social barriers, and the global dimension of the crisis cancels the effects of any action initiated unilaterally by state governments or sectoral institutions, however powerful they may be. Climate change, ocean and air pollution, nuclear risks and those related to genetic manipulation, the reduction and extinction of resources and biodiversity, and above all a development model that remains largely unquestioned globally are all among the various manifestations of this accelerated and probably irreversible effect.This effect is the factor, in the framework of globalization, that most challenges a system of states competing with each other to the exclusion of all others: among the different fields of global governance, environmental management is the most wanting in urgent answers to the crisis in the form of collective actions by the whole of the human community. At the same time, these actions should help to model and strengthen the progressive building of this community."Proposals in this area have discussed the issue of how collective environmental action is possible. Many multilateral, environmentrelated agreements have been forged in the past 30 years, but their implementation remains difficult. There is also some discussion on the possibility of setting up an international organization that would centralize all the issues related to international environmental protection, such as the proposed World Environment Organization (WEO). The United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) could play this role, but it is a smallscale organization with a limited mandate. The question has given rise to two opposite views: the European Union, especially France and Germany, along with a number of NGOs, is in favor of creating a WEO; the United Kingdom, the US, and most developing countries prefer opting for voluntary initiatives.The International Institute for Sustainable Development proposes a "reform agenda" for global environmental governance. The main argument is that there seems to exist an unspoken but powerful consensus on the essential objectives of a system of global environmental governance. These goals would require topquality leadership, a strong environmental policy based on knowledge, effective cohesion and coordination, good management of the institutions constituting the environmental governance system, and spreading environmental concerns and actions to other areas of international policy and action.A World Environment OrganizationThe focus of environmental issues shifted to climate change from 1992 onwards. Due to the transboundary nature of climate change, various calls have been made for a World Environment Organisation (WEO) (sometimes referred to as a Global Environment Organisation) to tackle this global problem on a global scale. At present, a single worldwide governing body with the powers to develop and enforce environmental policy does not exist. The idea for the creation of a WEO was discussed thirty years ago but is receiving fresh attention in the light of arguably disappointing outcomes from recent, ‘environmental mega conferences’(e.g.Rio Summit and Earth Summit 2002).Multiple national environmental organizations are used to help build environments from the ground up. The Nature Conservancy helps from regrowing coral reefs to finding climate change solutions. The Nature Conservancy has scientists and volunteers in over 70 countries, working to conserve the world as much as possible. While creating international policies involving limiting pollution, the stop of habitat loss and trying to promote biodiversity, they work with other countries to find solutions. They go hand in hand with other international organizations that support finding ways to better the environment. The Environmental Defense Fund works with The Nature Conservancy to find solutions to environmental crises.Current global environmental governanceInternational environmental organizations do exist. The United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), created in 1972, coordinates the environmental activity of countries in the UN. UNEP and similar international environmental organizations are seen as not up to the task. They are criticized as being institutionally weak, fragmented, lacking in standing and providing nonoptimal environmental protection. It has been stated that the current decentralized, poorly funded and strictly intergovernmental regime for global environmental issues is substandard. However, the creation of a WEO may threaten to undermine some of the more effective aspects of contemporary global environmental governance; notably its fragmented nature, from which flexibility stems. This also allows responses to be more effective and links to be forged across different domains. Even though the environment and climate change are framed as global issues, Levin states that ‘it is precisely at this level that government institutions are least effective and trust most delicate’ while Oberthur and Gehring argue that it would offer little more than institutional restructuring for its own sake.The UN is widely involved with the development of protecting the environment from an international perspective. In 2012 at the IN Conference on Sustainable Development, they have fully committed to working towards a safer and healthier environment. This ranges from the planting of trees to the type of cars citizens can drive. Between analyzing and writing multiple solutions, they have found possibilities to strengthen and enhance synergies among global environmental conventions.There are multiple organizations involved in creating a strong environmental impact, although the changes are not being made. Over the past couple decades there has been a decrease in trend and an increase in risks to the environment. Global Governance reforms have been taken place to try and make changed, but it is the issue of making the game plans effective.A World Environment Organization and the World Trade OrganizationMany proposals for the creation of a WEO have emerged from the trade and environment debate. It has been argued that instead of creating a WEO to safeguard the environment, environmental issues should be directly incorporated into the World Trade Organization (WTO). The WTO has "had success in integrating trade agreements and opening up markets because it is able to apply legal pressure to nation states and resolve disputes". Greece and Germany are currently in discussion about the possibility of solar energy being used to repay some of Greece's debt after their economy crashed in 2010. This exchange of resources, if it is accepted, is an example of increased international cooperation and an instance where the WTO could embrace energy trade agreements. If the future holds similar trade agreements, then an environmental branch of the WTO would surely be necessary. However critics of a WTO/WEO arrangement say that this would neither concentrate on more directly addressing underlying market failures, nor greatly improve rulemaking.The creation of a new agency, whether it be linked to the WTO or not, has now been endorsed by Renato Ruggiero, the former head of the World Trade Organization (WTO), as well as by the new WTO directordesignate, Supachai Panitchpakdi. The debate over a global institutional framework for environmental issues will undoubtedly rumble on but at present there is little support for any one proposal.World Trade involves a wide amount of funding and taxes when being sent from one state to another. Singapore's Prime Minister created a solution that would benefit all countries which would promote economic stability and sustainable growth for all states. The Eminent Person's Group (EPG) would control Financial Global Governance to create fair and equal regulations with all involved. This governance structure would require the development of finance institutions and would involve all countries working together.Governance of the economy and of globalizationThe 2008 financial crisis may have undermined faith that laissezfaire capitalism will correct all serious financial malfunctioning on its own, as well as belief in the presumed independence of the economy from politics. It has been stated that, lacking in transparency and far from democratic, international financial institutions may be incapable of handling financial collapses. There are many who believe freemarket capitalism may be incapable of forming the economic policy of a stable society, as it has been theorised that it can exacerbate inequalities.Nonetheless, the debate on the potential failings of the system has led the academic world to seek solutions. According to Tubiana and Severino, "refocusing the doctrine of international cooperation on the concept of public goods offers the possibility . . . of breaking the deadlock in international negotiations on development, with the perception of shared interests breathing new life into an international solidarity that is running out of steam."Joseph Stiglitz argues that a number of global public goods should be produced and supplied to the populations, but are not, and that a number of global externalities should be taken into consideration, but are not. On the other hand, he contends, the international stage is often used to find solutions to completely unrelated problems under the protection of opacity and secrecy, which would be impossible in a national democratic framework.On the subject of international trade, Susan George states that ". . . in a rational world, it would be possible to construct a trading system serving the needs of people in both North and South. . . . Under such a system, crushing third world debt and the devastating structural adjustment policies applied by the World Bank and the IMF would have been unthinkable, although the system would not have abolished capitalism."Political and institutional governanceBuilding a responsible world governance that would make it possible to adapt the political organization of society to globalization implies establishing a democratic political legitimacy at every level: local, national, regional and global.Obtaining this legitimacy requires rethinking and reforming, all at the same time:the fuzzy maze of various international organizations, instituted mostly in the wake of World War II; what is needed is a system of international organizations with greater resources and a greater intervention capacity, more transparent, fairer, and more democratic;the Westphalian system, the very nature of states along with the role they play with regard to the other institutions, and their relations to each other; states will have to share part of their sovereignty with institutions and bodies at other territorial levels, and all with have to begin a major process to deepen democracy and make their organization more responsible;the meaning of citizen sovereignty in the different government systems and the role of citizens as political protagonists; there is a need to rethink the meaning of political representation and participation and to sow the seeds of a radical change of consciousness that will make it possible to move in the direction of a situation in which citizens, in practice, will play the leading role at every scale.The political aspect of world governance is discussed in greater detail in the section Problems of World Governance and Principles of GovernanceThe political and institutional governments help protect the rights of humans and make all things equal between states. The middle balance prevents war breakouts and civil wars. They prevent the world from a global crisis and have programs to conduct research on ways to increase citizen participation in politics to become more involved. The increasing of interdependence has led to the incline of needing political and institutional governance.Global health governanceWhere governance refers to institutional arrangements between state and nonstate actors, global health governance refers to such institutional arrangements that have a direct and indirect impact on health. Prior to 2002, the term "global health governance" did not exist; it emerged as a description of crossborder initiatives (structures and processes) tackling global health. Global health governance (GHG) has come to replace an earlier term "international health governance" (IHG) which worked in a more statecentric system and era. There is a call for a clearer definition and “conceptual clarity” for GHG due to its multiple meanings and varied uses.Global health governance foregrounds the interconnectivity that is needed between state and nonstate actors. This interconnectivity differs from former global health systems in the greater role for nonstate actors whose numbers are also increasing. Nonstate actors are seen as vital at a time when state actors alone cannot address the many health challenges. Global health governance gives new roles for both nonstate and state actors, in areas such as agenda setting, resource mobilization and allocation, and dispute settlement. These changing roles have generated new kinds of partnerships such as the global campaign against the marketing of breast milk substitutes: collaboration between UNICEF, WHO, the International Baby Food Action Network, and other likeminded nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) came together to address this issue. Given the diversity found within the NGO community, specific NGOs can work in collaboration with state actors on specific issues, forming a more permanent yet fluid collaboration between the two.Governance of peace, security, and conflict resolutionArmed conflicts have changed in form and intensity since the Berlin wall came down in 1989. The events of 9/11, the wars in Afghanistan and in Iraq, and repeated terrorist attacks all show that conflicts can repercuss well beyond the belligerents directly involved. The major powers and especially the United States, have used war as a means of resolving conflicts and may well continue to do so. If many in the United States believe that fundamentalist Muslim networks are likely to continue to launch attacks, in Europe nationalist movements have proved to be the most persistent terrorist threat. The Global War on Terrorism arguably presents a form of emerging global governance in the sphere of security with the United States leading cooperation among the Western states, nonWestern nations and international institutions. Beyer argues that participation in this form of 'hegemonic governance' is caused both by a shared identity and ideology with the US, as well as costbenefit considerations.At the same time, civil wars continue to break out across the world, particularly in areas where civil and human rights are not respected, such as Central and Eastern Africa and the Middle East. These and other regions remain deeply entrenched in permanent crises, hampered by authoritarian regimes, many of them being supported by the United States, reducing entire swathes of the population to wretched living conditions. The wars and conflicts we are faced with have a variety of causes: economic inequality, social conflict, religious sectarianism, Western imperialism, colonial legacies, disputes over territory and over control of basic resources such as water or land. They are all illustrations of a deeprooted crisis of world governance.The resulting bellicose climate imbues international relations with competitive nationalism and contributes, in rich and poor countries alike, to increasing military budgets, siphoning off huge sums of public money to the benefit of the arms industry and militaryoriented scientific innovation, hence fueling global insecurity. Of these enormous sums, a fraction would be enough to provide a permanent solution for the basic needs of the planet's population hence practically eliminating the causes of war and terrorism.Andrée Michel argues that the arms race is not only proceeding with greater vigor, it is the surest means for Western countries to maintain their hegemony over countries of the South. Following the breakup of the Eastern bloc countries, she maintains, a strategy for the manipulation of the masses was set up with a permanent invention of an enemy (currently incarnated by Iraq, Iran, Libya, Syria, and North Korea) and by kindling fear and hate of others to justify perpetuating the Military–industrial complex and arms sales. The author also recalls that the "Big Five" at the UN who have the veto right are responsible for 85% of arms sales around the world.Proposals for the governance of peace, security, and conflict resolution begin by addressing prevention of the causes of conflicts, whether economic, social, religious, political, or territorial. This requires assigning more resources to improving people's living conditions—health, accommodation, food, and work—and to education, including education in the values of peace, social justice, and unity and diversity as two sides of the same coin representing the global village.Resources for peace could be obtained by regulating, or even reducing military budgets, which have done nothing but rise in the past recent years. This process could go hand in hand with plans for global disarmament and the conversion of arms industries, applied proportionally to all countries, including the major powers. Unfortunately, the warlike climate of the last decade has served to relegate all plans for global disarmament, even in civilsociety debates, and to pigeonhole them as a longterm goal or even a Utopian vision. This is definitely a setback for the cause of peace and for humankind, but it is far from being a permanent obstacle.International institutions also have a role to play in resolving armed conflicts. Small international rapid deployment units could intervene in these with an exclusive mandate granted by a reformed and democratic United Nations system or by relevant regional authorities such as the European Union. These units could be formed specifically for each conflict, using armies from several countries as was the case when the UNIFIL was reinforced during the 2006 Lebanon War. On the other hand, no national army would be authorized to intervene unilaterally outside its territory without a UN or regional mandate.Another issue that is worth addressing concerns the legitimate conditions for the use of force and conduct during war. JeanRéné Bachelet offers an answer with the conceptualization of a military ethics corresponding to the need for a "principle of humanity." The author defines this principle as follows: "All human beings, whatever their race, nationality, gender, age, opinion, or religion, belong to one same humanity, and every individual has an inalienable right to respect for his life, integrity, and dignity."Governance of science, education, information, and communicationsEconomic globalizationFurther information: Economic globalizationThe World Trade Organization's (WTO) agenda of liberalizing public goods and services are related to culture, science, education, health, living organisms, information, and communication. This plan has been only partially offset by the alterglobalization movement, starting with the events that took place at the 1999 Seattle meeting, and on a totally different and probably far more influential scale in the medium and long term, by the astounding explosion of collaborative practices on the Internet. However, lacking political and widespread citizen support as well as sufficient resources, civil society has so far not been able to develop and disseminate alternative plans for society as a whole on a global scale, even though plenty of proposals and initiatives have been developed, some more successful than others, to build a fairer, more responsible, and more health and sustainabilitybased world in all of these areas.Science for societySee also: Metascience and Research questionAs far as science is concerned, "esearch increasingly bows to the needs of financial markets, turning competence and knowledge into commodities, making employment flexible and informal, and establishing contracts based on goals and profits for the benefit of private interests in compliance with the competition principle. The directions that research has taken in the past two decades and the changes it has undergone have drastically removed it from its initial mission (producing competence and, especially societally important, knowledge, maintaining independence) with no questioning of its current and future missions. Despite the progress, or perhaps even as its consequence, humankind continues to face critical problems: poverty and hunger are yet to be vanquished, nuclear arms are proliferating, environmental disasters are on the rise, social injustice is growing, and so on.Neoliberal commercialization of the commons favors the interests of pharmaceutical companies instead of the patients', of foodprocessing companies instead of the farmers' and consumers'. Public research policies have supported this process of economic profitability, where research results are increasingly judged by the financial markets. The system of systematically patenting knowledge and living organisms is thus being imposed throughout the planet through the 1994 WTO agreements on intellectual property. Research in many areas is now being directed by private companies."On the global level, "nstitutions dominating a specific sector also, at every level, present the risk of reliance on technical bodies that use their own references and deliberate in an isolated environment. This process can be observed with the 'community of patents' that promotes the patenting of living organisms, as well as with authorities controlling nuclear energy. This inwardlooking approach is all the more dangerous that communities of experts are, in all complex technical and legal spheres, increasingly dominated by the major economic organizations that finance research and development."On the other hand, several innovative experiments have emerged in the sphere of science, such as: conscience clauses and citizens' panels as a tool for democratizing the production system: science shops and communitybased research. Politically committed scientists are also increasingly organizing at the global level.Values, preferences, popular philosophy and cultureAbove all, each country tries to impose their values and collective preferences within international institutions such like WTO or UNESCO, especially in the media sector. This is an opportunity to promote their soft power, for instance with the promotion of cinema. Nevertheless, cinema or the film industry also is largely driven by marketbased interests – not countries – and has, for example, been criticized for not portraying wellthought out positive visions of alternative future society (socioeconomics) or realworld problems of climate change (based on latest scientific knowledge). Some have commented on contemporary popular fiction (mainly cinema, film and TV series), saying that "it is easier to imagine the end of the world than it is to imagine the end of capitalism" or to imagine how current problems could get successfully confronted.Education and knowledgeThe effect of commoditization can be seen in the serious tightening of education budgets, which affects the quality of general education as a public service. The Global Future Online report reminds us that ". . . at the halfway point towards 2015 (author's note: the deadline for the Millennium Goals), the gaps are daunting: 80 million children (44 million of them girls) are out of school, with marginalized groups (26 million disabled and 30 million conflictaffected children) continuing to be excluded. And while universal access is critical, it must be coupled with improved learning outcomes—in particular, children achieving the basic literacy, numeracy and life skills essential for poverty reduction."In addition to making the current educational system available universally, there is also a call to improve the system and adapt it to the speed of changes in a complex and unpredictable world. On this point, Edgar Morin asserts that we must "ethink our way of organizing knowledge. This means breaking down the traditional barriers between disciplines and designing new ways to reconnect that which has been torn apart." The UNESCO report drawn up by Morin contains "seven principles for education of the future": detecting the error and illusion that have always parasitized the human spirit and human behavior; making knowledge relevant, i.e. a way of thinking that makes distinctions and connections; teaching the human condition; teaching terrestrial identity; facing human and scientific uncertainties and teaching strategies to deal with them; teaching understanding of the self and of others, and an ethics for humankind.Researchers have argued that there is a societal need for putting general problem solving skills at the center of education and that too little attention is being paid to real problem‐solving, e.g. concerning media literacy, modes of learning and science education. For example, as economies may partly start to restructure to orient towards sustainability, the number of "green jobs" may increase worldwide while other jobs are being lost. Such changes may make it more beneficial, especially globally, to develop education systems – potentially including media – and to help establish ways of retraining.Novel global collaborationThe exponential growth of new technologies, the Internet in particular, has gone hand in hand with the development over the last decade of a global community producing and exchanging goods. This development is permanently altering the shape of the entertainment, publishing, and music and media industries, among others. It is also influencing the social behavior and work of increasing numbers of people, along with the way in which institutions, businesses, and civil society are organized.Peertopeer communities, commonsbased peer production and collective knowledgebuilding projects such as Wikipedia or free and open source software projects like GNU/Linux software have involved millions of users around the world. There are many innovative initiatives, such as alternatives to private copyright like Creative Commons, Project Drawdown – a Web 1.0 global platform that aggregates a large number of potential climate change mitigation measures, cyber democracy practices, and a real possibility of developing them on the sectoral, regional, and global levels.Mitigation of catastrophic risks from research and technologySee also: Global catastrophe scenarios, Dualuse technology, and Pandemic preventionIn a paywalled article, American scientists propose policybased measures to reduce large risks from life sciences research – such as (global) pandemics through accident or misapplication. Risk management measures may include novel international guidelines and standards of conduct, effective oversight, improvement of US policies to influence policies globally, and identification of gaps in biosecurity policies along with potential approaches to address them.Global health governanceRegional viewsRegional players, whether regional conglomerates such as Mercosur and the European Union, or major countries seen as key regional players such as China, the United States, and India, are taking a growing interest in world governance. Examples of discussion of this issue can be found in the works of: Martina Timmermann et al., Institutionalizing Northeast Asia: Regional Steps toward Global Governance; Douglas Lewis, Global Governance and the Quest for Justice  Volume I: International and Regional Organizations; Olav Schram Stokke, "Examining the Consequences of International Regimes," which discusses Northern, or Arctic region building in the context of international relations; Jeffery Hart and Joan Edelman Spero, "Globalization and Global Governance in the 21st Century," which discusses the push of countries such as Mexico, Brazil, India, China, Taiwan, and South Korea, "important regional players" seeking "a seat at the table of global decisionmaking"; Frank Altemöller, "International Trade: Challenges for Regional and Global Governance: A comparison between Regional Integration Models in Eastern Europe and Africa – and the role of the WTO", and many others.AfricaAlways seen as a problem to be solved rather than a people or region with an opinion to express on international policy, Africans and Africa draw on a philosophical tradition of community and social solidarity that can serve as inspiration to the rest of the world and contribute to building world governance. One example is given by Sabelo J. NdlovuGathseni when he reminds us of the relevance of the Ubuntu concept, which stresses the interdependence of human beings.African civil society has thus begun to draw up proposals for governance of the continent, which factor in all of the dimensions: local, African, and global. Examples include proposals by the network "Dialogues sur la gouvernance en Afrique" for "the construction of a local legitimate governance," state reform "capable of meeting the continent's development challenges," and "effective regional governance to put an end to Africa's marginalization."South AmericaThe 21st century has seen the arrival of a new and diverse generation of leftwing governments in Latin America. This has opened the door to initiatives to launch political and governance renewal. A number of these initiatives are significant for the way they redefine the role of the state by drawing on citizen participation, and can thus serve as a model for a future world governance built first and foremost on the voice of the people. The constituent assemblies in Ecuador and Bolivia are fundamental examples of this phenomenon.In Ecuador, social and indigenous movements were behind the discussions that began in 1990 on setting up a constituent assembly. In the wake of Rafael Correa's arrival at the head of the country in November 2006, widespread popular action with the slogan "que se vayan todos" (let them all go away) succeeded in getting all the political parties of congress to accept a convocation for a referendum on setting up the assembly.In April 2007, Rafael Correa's government organized a consultation with the people to approve setting up a constituent assembly. Once it was approved, 130 members of the assembly were elected in September, including 100 provincial members, 24 national members and 6 for migrants in Europe, Latin America and the USA. The assembly was officially established in November. Assembly members belonged to traditional political parties as well as the new social movements. In July 2008, the assembly completed the text for the new constitution and in September 2008 there was a referendum to approve it. Approval for the new text won out, with 63.9% of votes for compared to 28.1% of votes against and a 24.3% abstention rate.The new constitution establishes the rule of law on economic, social, cultural and environmental rights (ESCER). It transforms the legal model of the social state subject to the rule of law into a "constitution of guaranteed wellbeing" (Constitución del bienestar garantizado) inspired by the ancestral community ideology of "good living" propounded by the Quechuas of the past, as well as by 21st century socialist ideology. The constitution promotes the concept of food sovereignty by establishing a protectionist system that favors domestic production and trade. It also develops a model of public aid for education, health, infrastructures and other services.In addition, it adds to the three traditional powers, a fourth power called the Council of Citizen Participation and Social Control, made up of former constitutional control bodies and social movements, and mandated to assess whether public policies are constitutional or not.The new Bolivian constitution was approved on 25 January 2009 by referendum, with 61.4% votes in favor, 38.6% against and a 90.2% turnout. The proposed constitution was prepared by a constituent assembly that did not only reflect the interests of political parties and the elite, but also represented the indigenous peoples and social movements. As in Ecuador, the proclamation of a constituent assembly was demanded by the people, starting in 1990 at a gathering of indigenous peoples from the entire country, continuing with the indigenous marches in the early 2000s and then with the Program Unity Pact (Pacto de Unidad Programático) established by family farmers and indigenous people in September 2004 in Santa Cruz.The constitution recognizes the autonomy of indigenous peoples, the existence of a specific indigenous legal system, exclusive ownership of forest resources by each community and a quota of indigenous members of parliament. It grants autonomy to counties, which have the right to manage their natural resources and elect their representatives directly. The latifundio system has been outlawed, with maximum ownership of 5,000 hectares allowed per person. Access to water and sanitation are covered by the constitution as human rights that the state has to guarantee, as well as other basic services such as electricity, gas, postal services, and telecommunications that can be provided by either the state or contracting companies. The new constitution also establishes a social and community economic model made up of public, private, and social organizations, and cooperatives. It guarantees private initiative and freedom of enterprise, and assigns public organizations the task of managing natural resources and related processes as well as developing public services covered by the constitution. National and cooperative investment is favored over private and international investment.The "unitary plurinational" state of Bolivia has 36 official indigenous languages along with Spanish. Natural resources belong to the people and are administered by the state. The form of democracy in place is no longer considered as exclusively representative and/or based on parties. Thus, "the people deliberate and exercise government via their representatives and the constituent assembly, the citizen legislative initiative and the referendum . . ." and "popular representation is exercised via the political parties, citizen groups, and indigenous peoples." This way, "political parties, and/or citizen groups and/or indigenous peoples can present candidates directly for the offices of president, vicepresident, senator, house representative, constituentassembly member, councilor, mayor, and municipal agent. The same conditions apply legally to all. . . ."North AmericaForeignpolicy proposals announced by President Barack Obama include restoring the Global Poverty Act, which aims to contribute to meeting the UN Millennium Development Goals to reduce by half the world population living on less than a dollar a day by 2015. Foreign aid is expected to double to 50 billion dollars. The money will be used to help build educated and healthy communities, reduce poverty and improve the population's health.The United States and China have been working side by side to improve foreign policy and global governance. There has been a 3year project to support the international business industry. They have discussed climate change, areas of trade, investment and finance. The Research Center for Chinese Politics and Business (RCCPB) has done the majority of international relationship meetings and has input the most solutions for development including bringing scholars from all around the world to meet and discuss action plans.In terms of international institutions, The White House Web site advocates reform of the World Bank and the IMF, without going into any detail.Below are further points in the ObamaBiden plan for foreign policy directly related to world governance:strengthening of the nuclear nonproliferation treaty;global denuclearization in several stages including stepping up cooperation with Russia to significantly reduce stocks of nuclear arms in both countries;revision of the culture of secrecy: institution of a National Declassification Center to make declassification secure but routine, efficient, and costeffective;increase in global funds for AIDS, TB and malaria. Eradication of malariarelated deaths by 2015 by making medicines and mosquito nets far more widely available;increase in aid for children and maternal health as well as access to reproductive healthcare programs;creation of a 2billiondollar global fund for education. Increased funds for providing access to drinking water and sanitation;other similarly largescale measures covering agriculture, small and mediumsized enterprises and support for a model of international trade that fosters job creation and improves the quality of life in poor countries;in terms of energy and global warming, Obama advocates a) an 80% reduction of greenhousegas emissions by 2050 b) investing 150 billion dollars in alternative energies over the next 10 years and c) creating a Global Energy Forum capable of initiating a new generation of climate protocols.AsiaThe growing interest in world governance in Asia represents an alternative approach to official messages, dominated by states' nationalist visions. An initiative to develop proposals for world governance took place in Shanghai in 2006, attended by young people from every continent. The initiative produced ideas and projects that can be classified as two types: the first and more traditional type, covering the creation of a number of new institutions such as an International Emissions Organization, and a second more innovative type based on organizing networkbased systems. For example, a system of cooperative control on a worldwide level among states and selforganization of civil society into networks using new technologies, a process that should serve to set up a Global CallingforHelp Center or a new model based on citizens who communicate freely, share information, hold discussions, and seek consensusbased solutions. They would use the Internet and the media, working within several types of organizations: universities, NGOs, local volunteers and civilsociety groups.Given the demographic importance of the continent, the development of discussion on governance and practices in Asia at the regional level, as well as globallevel proposals, will be decisive in the years ahead in the strengthening of global dialog among all sorts of stakeholders, a dialog that should produce a fairer world order.(See Kishore Mahbubani).EuropeAccording to Michel Rocard, Europe does not have a shared vision, but a collective history that allows Europeans to opt for projects for gradual political construction such as the European Union. Drawing on this observation, Rocard conceives of a European perspective that supports the development of three strategies for constructing world governance: reforming the UN, drawing up international treaties to serve as the main source of global regulations, and "the progressive penetration of the international scene by justice."Europe does not have the same views as other nations, however according to the Ambassador of Vienna, Walther Lichem, "Today, every citizen can contribute to the recognition of the dignity of the other and the related human rights. The impact of citizenfocused human rights programs is visible in human rights cities in all regions of the world. The citizen creating conditions of societal cohesion also essentially contributes to peace and security." Overall, having the same human rights goal is the ultimate end game in all nations. Europe's main focus now through global governance is to keep the trend of peacekeeping. Involved in the peacekeeping is Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Germany, Austria, Belgium and Norway. They have worked with The International Collaboration Research Network to establish rules and norms to follow by.Rocard considers that there are a number of "great questions of the present days" including recognition by all nations of the International Criminal Court, the option of an international police force authorized to arrest international criminals, and the institution of judicial procedures to deal with tax havens, massively polluting activities, and states supporting terrorist activities. He also outlines "new problems" that should foster debate in the years to come on questions such as a project for a Declaration of Interdependence, how to reequilibrate world trade and WTO activities, and how to create world regulations for managing collective goods (air, drinking water, oil, etc.) and services (education, health, etc.).Academic tool or disciplineIn the light of the unclear meaning of the term "global governance" as a concept in international politics, some authors have proposed defining it not in substantive, but in disciplinary and methodological terms. For these authors, global governance is better understood as an analytical concept or optic that provides a specific perspective on world politics different from that of conventional international relations theory. Thomas G. Weiss and Rorden Wilkinson have even argued that global governance has the capacity to overcome some of the fragmentation of international relations as a discipline particularly when understood as a set of questions about the governance of world orders. Other authors conceptualised global governance as a field of practice in which diverse stakeholders, such as public, private, and supragovernmental actors can compete for influence about issues that are not bound to national boundaries. This conceptualisation allows to better understand the principles of exclusions of specific stakeholders from the negotiation field as some actors lack the economic, social, cultural and symbolic resources required to gain enough influence.Some universities, including those offering courses in international relations, have begun to establish degree programmes in global governance.IssuesExpansion of normative mechanisms and globalization of institutionsOne effect of globalization is the increasing regulation of businesses in the global marketplace. Jan Aart Scholte asserts, however, that these changes are inadequate to meet the needs: "Along with the general intensified globalization of social relations in contemporary history has come an unprecedented expansion of regulatory apparatuses that cover planetary jurisdictions and constituencies. On the whole, however, this global governance remains weak relative to pressing current needs for global public policy. Shortfalls in moral standing, legal foundations, material delivery, democratic credentials and charismatic leadership have together generated large legitimacy deficits in existing global regimes."Proposals and initiatives have been developed by various sources to set up networks and institutions operating on a global scale: political parties, unions, regional authorities, and members of parliament in sovereign states.Formulation and objectivesOne of the conditions for building a world democratic governance should be the development of platforms for citizen dialogue on the legal formulation of world governance and the harmonization of objectives.This legal formulation could take the form of a Global Constitution. According to Pierre Calame and Gustavo Marin, " Global Constitution resulting from a process for the institution of a global community will act as the common reference for establishing the order of rights and duties applicable to United Nations agencies and to the other multilateral institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and the World Trade Organization." As for formulating objectives, the necessary but insufficient ambition of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, which aim to safeguard humankind and the planet, and the huge difficulties in implementing them, illustrates the inadequacy of institutional initiatives that do not have popular support for having failed to invite citizens to take part in the elaboration process.Furthermore, the Global Constitution "must clearly express a limited number of overall objectives that are to be the basis of global governance and are to guide the common action of the U.N. agencies and the multilateral institutions, where the specific role of each of these is subordinated to the pursuit of these common objectives."Calame proposes the following objectives:instituting the conditions for sustainable developmentreducing inequalitiesestablishing lasting peace while respecting diversity.Reforming international institutionsIs the UN capable of taking on the heavy responsibility of managing the planet's serious problems? More specifically, can the UN reform itself in such a way as to be able to meet this challenge? At a time when the financial crisis of 2008 is raising the same questions posed by the climate disasters of previous years regarding the unpredictable consequences of disastrous human management, can international financial institutions be reformed in such a way as to go back to their original task, which was to provide financial help to countries in need?Lack of political will and citizen involvement at the international level has also brought about the submission of international institutions to the "neoliberal" agenda, particularly financial institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization (WTO). Pierre Calame gives an account of this development, while Joseph E. Stiglitz points out that the need for international institutions like the IMF, the World Bank, and the WTO has never been so great, but people's trust in them has never been so low.One of the key aspects of the United Nations reform is the problem of the representativeness of the General Assembly. The Assembly operates on the principle of "one state, one vote," so that states of hugely varying sizes have the same effect on the vote, which distorts representativeness and results in a major loss of credibility. Accordingly, "the General Assembly has lost any real capacity to influence. This means that the mechanisms for action and consultation organized by rich countries have the leading role."Gustave Massiah advocates defining and implementing a radical reform of the UN. The author proposes building new foundations that can provide the basis for global democracy and the creation of a Global Social Contract, rooted in the respect and protection of civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights, as well as in the recognition of the strategic role of international law.Global goalsThis section is an excerpt from 2020s § Global goals and issues.Development in global goals and issues – including goals or progress related to the largest causes of human death – during the decade, according to reports that systematically track, quantify or review associated progress.As of 2022Progress of the Paris Agreement or global climate change mitigation goalsThe United in Science 2022 report by the WMO, summarizes latest climate sciencerelated updates and assesses recent climate change mitigation progress as "going in the wrong direction".A report by the World Resources Institute assesses the state of nationally determined contributions (NDCs), finding they need to be strengthened by about six times for alignment with what may be enough to reach the Paris Agreement's 1.5 °C goal. The UNFCCC's NDC synthesis report suggests that based on the latest NDCs the carbon budget for a 50% likelihood of limiting warming to 1.5 °C would be used up by around 2032.A Lancet Countdown report publishes data of indicators that show "countries and companies continue to make choices that threaten the health and survival of people in every part of the world". It calls for an immediate, healthcentred response at a critical juncture of recovery from crises.The WMO reports atmospheric levels of the three main greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, all reached record highs, with methane concentrations showing a record jump in 2021. The WMO SecretaryGeneral concludes that "we are heading in the wrong direction", with time "running out".Climate Action Tracker systematically assesses the state of progress of actions of climate goals in an overview, finding that none of the indicators is on track to reach their 2030 targets, with insufficient speed for six indicators, and well below the required pace for 21, five heading in the wrong direction, and data being insufficient to evaluate the remaining eight.The UNEP's Emissions Gap Report finds that no credible "pathway" to the 1.5 °C climate goal is in place. Similarly, a UNFCCC synthesis about "longterm lowemission development strategies" warns that many netzero targets "remain uncertain and postpone into the future critical action that needs to take place now".Deforestation mitigation goalsAn annual report by the World Resources Institute shows that tropical regions lost 9.3 million acres of primary oldgrowth forest in 2021, a decline of 11% from 2020, and about equal to both 2018 and 2019.The Forest Declaration Assessment finds that a drop of only 6.3% in deforestation in 2021 is "leaving the world off track from its goals of ending forest loss by 2030".Public health goalsThe UN's "The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World" report finds that the number of people affected by hunger globally rose by 46 million to 828 million in 2021. 3.1 billion people could not afford a healthy diet in 2020, an increase of 112 million from 2019.A WHO report indicates collective progress toward a 15% relative reduction in population levels of physical inactivity by 2030 is insufficient and that about 500 million people will develop heart disease, obesity, diabetes or other diseases if they don't increase their physical activity.Global budgets and government spendingThe OECD and IEA report that global public subsidies for fossil fuels almost doubled from 2020 to $700bn in 2021.General wellbeingThe Club of Rome, authors of the 1972 The Limits to Growth, and research institutes like the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research publish the "Earth for All" report, concluding that to increase the wellbeing of humanity, addressing rising inequality is key to mitigating related issues such as climate change with many current policies disproportionately burdening lower income groups.Sustainable Development Goals (other than the above or in general)The only UN report that monitors global progress on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development indicates the agenda is in "grave danger".GDPalternative progress or sustainable development indicesHuman Development Index (HDI): the Human Development Report 202122 concludes that for the first time, the global HDI value declined for a second year, with living standards declining in 90% of countries.A WORLD OF REGIONSA World of Regions  | LEARNING OBJECTIVES At the end of this lesson, students are expected to: I. define the term “Global South”: 2. differentiate the Global South from the Third World: and 3. analyze how a new conception of global relations emerged from the , experiences of Latin American countries.  Lesson 1. GLOBAL DIVIDES: THE NORTH AND THE SOUTH  While globalization is a phenomenon, regionalism is also seen as political and economic phenomenon. The world consists of different regions which refers to group of countries situated in same geographic location or amalgamate one another to oversee flows arid policy choices. Countries on these regions respond economically and politically to globalization thereby forming regional associations for common purposes like military defense and economic security. Regionalism is a political process characterized PY | economic policy cooperation and coordination among countries (Claudio, 2018). Whereas regionalization is the concentration of economic flow within region thereby binding together the region’s economy. Since regionalism is a process, regions are not given or naturally created. They are product of political and economic actors, and even social movements. Regions group and divide due to common traits and vested interests. The world is divided according to socioeconomic and political aspects. NorthSouth Divide The NorthSouth Divide or RichPoor Divide is the socioeconomic and political division between the wealthy developed countries known as “the North,” and the poorer developing countries or “the South.” Although most of the countries under “the North” are located in the Northern Hemisphere, the divide is purely not based on geographic location. Some countries located in the same hemisphere may be qualified for “developed” status. In effect may deemed part of “the South.” This divide is recently known as development gap which puts greater emphasis on the gap between the economically rich and poor countries. The Global North mostly encompasses the West and the First World, along with many of the Second World. It is the home of all the G8 (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom, United States and European Union), Global North also includes the outermost regions of the European Union, Key Terms NorthSouth Divide Regionalism Regionalization Global North Global South Third World First World Second World Australia, New Zealand, and developed members of Asia (the Four Asian Tigers  Hongkong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea). The North, with one quarter of the world population, controls fourfifths of the income earned anywhere in the world. It owned 90% of the manufacturing industries which are also located in the countries belonging to the North, The Global South refers to regions of Latin America, Asia, Africa, and Oceania. It includes the countries belonging to the Third World and Periphery. These are regions outside Europe and North America. With threefourth of the world populations, only has access to onefifth of the world income. Hence, countries that have lowincome and often politically or culturally marginalized. “The use of the phrase Global South marks a shift from a central focus on development or cultural difference toward an emphasis on geopolitical relations of power,” (Dados, 2012). The Brandt Line proposed by Willy Brandt in 1980s attempted to show growing income inequality between countries. Above the line are the rich countries, whereas below the line are the poor countries. However, this theory is no longer considered as valid since in today’s context some of the world’s strongest economies lie below the Brandt line.     Global South vs The Third World  The emergence of the term Global South is in part to aid countries in the Southern Hemisphere to work in collaboration on political, economic, social, environmental, cultural, and technical issues. This is called a SouthSouth Cooperation (SSC), “g political and economical term referring to the long term goal of pursuing world economic changes that mutually benefit countries in the Global South and lead to greater solidarity among the disadvantaged in the world system” (Gray, 2016). Global South was first used in 1969 in a contemporary political sense and continued to gain appeal throughout the second half ofthe 20™ century.  It was a French demographer, anthropologist and economic historian Alfred Sauvy (18981990) who coined the term “the Third World” in 1952, comparing it with Third Estate, a concept that emerged during the French Revolution which refers to the French population. The term was accepted because it clearly differentiated the poor countries from the First World where countries are wealthy, and to Second World (Communist states) though not so wealthy but characterized by greater order, higher incomes, and longer expectancies (Butler, 2007). There growth and develop of the developing countries in the 1970’s was slowing. Developed countries were becoming dependent on the Third World for energy due to the decline of US oil reserves. These likely increased the economic power of the. Third World. It was at this time that the term North and South were firstly widely used in lieu of the long standing geographical and cultural partition of the East and West. The Global South was merged to the Third World in order to avoid the stigma brought about by the form “Third World” as being very poor and thus created a new world order (Butler 2007). To explain further, Third World countries are experiencing deep poverty, inequality, and underdevelopment. They are the countries at the periphery that produce mainly agrarian and mineral raw materials for industrialized states. In deeper sense, the developing countries originally belong to the Global South still has a chance to become a developed country.  Global Relations in Latin America Latin America, like Africa, has small populations but endowed with rich natural resources. Because of this, this region is target for grandscale pillage for capital accumulation by Europe and the United States. Countries in Latin America wert under the control of either Spain or Portugal during the Colonial Era. During the 19" century, the world capitalist system exploited the peonized peasants. The tillers, laborers, and uneducated were subject to brutality by big agrarian landowners. The natural resources like mines were exploited by the developed countries.  The emigration of peasants from the countryside in the 20th century resulted to “modernization poverty” replacing rural poverty in Latin America. A settlement of jerrybuilt shacks or favelas emerged in the cities. A lot of people were now living in the urban areas alongside with the change of politics imposing fascist dictatorship. Certain rights were abolished like right to vote. Specialized police services were established giving extralegal authority to arrest and torture people who go against the government. The brutal super—exploitation in Latin America are worse compared to other regions in the world. Until now, some countries in the region are still suffering and recovering from the brutal treatment as the result of dictatorships. The situation of the Philippines during and after the colonial era was much better compared to the experiences of Latin America.  Even before the current globalization trends appear in Latin America, they were actually experiencing the wideraging globalization which resulted to exploitation and abuse. Danilo Antén (1998) in his article, “Different waves of globalization in Latin America”. The first wave of globalization was the military wave that happened around 15 to 16" centuries. Extracontinental military invasion of the Americas was immediately felt. There were political and cultural annihilation of the indigenous people. The first wave was extremely brutal.  The second wave of globalization was the economic wave. The Spanish and Portuguese colonies were well established this time in the 90" century. Latin America was the basic source of raw materials by the European countries. During this time, the globalization development was mainly related to the requirements of the European industrial revolution. Natural resources in this period were exploited and workers were abused. However, infectious diseases were reduced, communication, and transportation were developed.  Cultural wave was the third globalization wave. Due to the nature of technological changes, globalization affects the cultural sphere of Latin America. Computers and telecommunications were now made available and air travel has become widespread. The flow of merchandise and trade is easier and accomplishing lots of things. Women has become increasingly important in the workplace. A lot of changes were happening. Communication was becoming better. People within the region can now communicate with each other and to other regions of the world. But new disease was introduced like AIDS or HIV.  Though the impact of the third wave was already felt during the 20" century, the impact of the second wave was still felt and very much alive. Both waves in the last decade was simultaneously experienced affecting many countries around the world. The better effects brought by the third wave were often outweighed by its negative impacts. A lot of raw materials were produced and exported outside the region resulting to higher income to the detriment of the environment. Native trees  Recommended for youDocument continues below16Market integrationMarket integrationThe Contemporary World100% (50)1UTS Material SELF essayUTS Material SELF essayBachelor of hotel and restaurant management94% (32)1Are the Global North and Global South dependent on one another?".Are the Global North and Global South dependent on one another?".Contemporary World100% (40)or crops were replaced by other plants highly demanded by the importing countries resulting to soil erosion. Increased consumption of sea products promoted €XPansion of aquaculture resulting to reduction the water quality.  Despite of these effects, the national cultures of Latin America still exist These are important assets to regional societies. However, many individuals and communities have no political control over their common destinies. The weakening of the state capacity and the increase in access of information might be a source of opportunity for the individuals and communities. The tools offered by this new globalization, according to Anton (1998), might paved the way for planetary survival and social renewal.          Lesson 2. ASIAN REGIONALISM LEARNING OBJECTIVES: At the end of this lesson, students are expected to: 1. differentiate between regionalization and globalization; 2. identify the factors leading to a greater integration of the Asian region; and 3. analyze how different Asian states confront the challenges of globalization and regionalization.  Groups, associations, institutions, societies, communities and governments form organizations or networks in regions. The linkages and communications have made the people more aware of the world around them. Globalization has made various citizens cognizant of specific areas, particularly on territories or continents where they live. People are able to identify themselves with regions they belong to.  Regionalization vs Globalization As discussed previously, regionalization is the concentration of economic flow within region thereby binding together the region’s economy. It is a process of dividing areas into smaller segments called regions. While s promotes economic integrations across state borders around the world allowing many companies to trade internationally that permit free market. Whereas the former, may not allow corporations outside its region to trade and more likely create monopolies within the region. Regionalization and globalization are key defining features in contemporary world politics. They are not actually a complete new processes. Ever since men started to travel around the globe by boat or by land, globalization had started. As previously said, the exact meaning of globalization, and defining it is a controversial risk. It is always understood as the increased flow of goods, services, capital, people, and information across borders (Jacoby, 2010). Whether people share same culture, history or commerce, the most basic sense of region is a group of countries in the same geographic location (Mansfield, 1999). The countries in this region decided to integrate and interact socially and economically leading to regionalization (Hurrell, 2007).  Integration of Asian Region Key Terms Regionalism Regionalization Globalization Regional Integration Economic Integration Political Integration Single Market Processing Trade The process by which two or more neighboring nationstates agree to cooperate and work closely together to achieve peace, stability, and wealth is regional integration. It is overcoming barriers among neighboring countries jointly managing shared resources and assets for common good. The European Union supports regional integration to achieve prosperity, peace, and security. Cooperation among countries within the region usually start with economic integration. It is the process by which different countries come to agreement to remove trade barriers (e.g., tariffs, quotas and border restrictions) between them. Eventually political integration follows as cooperating states have become completely integrated into a single market since there is a need for common policies in social aspect (e.g., education, health care, employment benefits, and pensions) and political institutions. Single market is the midpoint between political and economic integration the cooperating states become so integrated that all barriers are removed. It will come to a point that the countries involved are totally integrated that they will adopt a common currency with a monetary policy regulated by a single central bank, even share the same foreign policies and merge their armies (McCormick, 1999). The European Union is the best example of regional integration. They are almost nearing to the point of total integration. They have their common currency, the Euro. Who knows in the near future, EU will combine politically and maximum scale of total integration.  It took time for Asia to integrate economically due to, first, its unbalanced economic growth. Some countries in Asia have mediumhigh income (e.g., Singapore and South Korea), others are of mediumlow income (e.g., Philippines and Indonesia), and low income earners (e.g., Pakistan and Cambodia). Second reason for the delay is diversified cultures, religions and customs among the people. Asia has a long history and brilliant ancient civilization but impedes the progress of integration. Issues and problems of security is the third cause of delay. The issues on terrorism and boundary disputes and other problems brought some negative consequences to the progress of Asia’s economic integration (Kang, 2009).  The integration of East and South Asia is the product of global economic integration. According to Sally (2010), EastAsian integration is the strongest in trade in transport and machinery which the heart of these products is processing trade (also known as fragmented or network trade). This kind of trade is trade in parts or components where different parts of the production process are located in different countries. The production chains ended in a laborintensive assembly operations happened mostly in China since 1990s before export tofinal consumer markets in the West. Accordingly, South Asia was seen to increase in manufactured exports  The ASEAN or South East Asian Nations was established on August 8, 1967 in Bangkok, Thailand. Up today, there are 10 memberstates of which the Philippines is one of its founding members. The gist of the aims and purposes of ASEAN is to accelerate the economic growth, promote on matters of sociocultural interests, and maintain regional peace and prosperity. In 2007, These objectives are clearly manifested in its three pillars: ASEAN PoliticalSecurity Community; ASEAN Economic Community; and ASEAN SocioCultural Community. ASEAN has convened to form the ASEAN Community in 2015, of which its four main goals are: Single Market and Production Base; Highly Competitive Economic Region; Equitable Economic Development; and Integration into the Global Economy (Coloso, 2015).  In her article, Austria (2004), discussed three factors that drive economic integration of the ASEAN: Marketled process through the international production sharing of MNCs. The unilateral and multilateral reduction of barriers to trade and invest, rapid development of transportation, and information technology made it possible to establish and set up businesses in Asian Countries. TNCs or MNCs geared their businesses to developing countries where laborintensive segment of the production chain is located and wages are low; Institutionled process through the free trade, investment agreements, and functional cooperation. Barriers to intraregional trade were reduced due to ASEAN Free Trade Act (AFTA) which attracted the FDIdriven production networks. AFTA created an environment for MNCs freely choose their crossborder bases and conduct their economic activities, thereby allowing the exploitation of factor price within the region Privateled process is the Subregional Economic Zones (SREZs) aim to enhance the attractiveness of investment in the continuous areas by combining their advantages and exploit economic complementaries. SREZs are private sectorled with the role of national and local governments limited only to facilitating through policy framework and investment promotion. These zones are usually located within national borders of the country with their aims to increase trade and investment, create job, and establish effective administration. According to former Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) Assistant Secretary Ceferino Rodolfo, “Asia is the most dynamic and fastestgrowing region in the world; and in Asia, the most dynamic is Southeast Asia; and in Southeast Asia, the fastest growing subregion is the Philippine”. The Philippines has current trade agreements with ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations), WTO (World Trade Organization) and APEC (AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation) and exports to countries with which that has signed Free Trade Agreements (FTA)..It enacted Republic Act No. 10641 in 2014 entry of foreign banks, is allowed and legalized removing specific limits on the number of foreign bank, reopening the three modes of entry, and allowing up to 100 percent foreign ownership in an existing bank and a new banking subsidiary.  Challenges on Regionalization and Globalization in Asia Though increasing trade and financial sector integration offers enormous benefits however, this poses, new challenges (Camdessus, 1997). One of the challenges perhaps is in trade. The openness of Asian economy encouraged competitiveness and transfer of technology. Other countries should open their economies to enjoy the benefit of trade liberalization while those already benefited must ensure that the openness is extended to new frontiers. It is important to increase transparency and free flow of information on which the service and financial sectors depend. Further, there is a need to develop effective policies for noncompetitive industries. With this, a number of countries need to improve their infrastructure, especially in transportation, telecommunications, and power supply to sustain growth. In turn, public finances should be strengthened by reducing outlays in less productive areas and regional trade initiative should be compatible with the global trade liberalization. Another challenge is in the financial flows. Stable macroeconomic policies will give confidence to financial markets and attract private savings in the domestic level and regional cooperation. Transparent and predictable regulatory policies, and reliable legal framework are essential ingredients in creating a favorable investment climate. Then the increasing pace of financial innovation and integration pose a problem. Room for policy maneuver and scope for policy mistakes is limited due to large capital flows. The regulation and supervision of Asia countries should keep pace with the complexities of banking business. Policies should be enacted that will strengthen the banking systems without fear of aggravating banking sector problems. Regional policy coordination is another challenge. Each country has an increasing stake in the sound policies of the others with countries becoming more integrated. Countries within the region can play a constructive role in encouraging each other in maintaining sound policies. On the talk given by SecretaryGeneral of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Rodolfo C. Severino at the Symposium on “AFTA and Beyond” on May 30, 2002, he said that regional integration is the only way to generate sufficient economic activity, improve efficiency, heighten competition, attract investments, and thus create jobs. He said further that Southeast Asian countries should integrate to be competitive in the global economy to counteract forces of globalization. The massive agriculture subsidies in the European Union, Japan, and United States; agricultural protection in the guise of quarantine regulations; the abuse of antidumping; imposition of prohibitive costs and litigation to developing countries are among the policies that strengthen the value of protectionism among the Asian countries. Thus, ASEAN has no choice but to create a strong bond to have a better chance working together in the harshly competitive world.  Challenges: ASEAN and COVID19 The coronavirus disease (COVID19) pandemic has severely affected East and Southeast Asian economies, especially by disrupting the flow of goods and services in the region’s global value chains (GVCs). The impacts ‘and implications of pandemic on the regional economy, especially with respect to regional economic governance are widely discussed by ASEAN Leaders in various meetings to forge a more coordinated regional response. The meetings with the health officials of ASEAN member states, and the ASEAN + 3 countries (the People’s Republic of China, Japan and Republic of Korea), and between Heads of States, Foreign Ministers, Defence Ministers, Ministers for Finance, Ministers for Agriculture and Forestry, and Ministers for Labour had impelled commitments to combat against the pandemic. Outlining the commitments on relatedhealth issues: Information sharing on detection, control and interventions; coordinating cross border health response, including contact tracing and outbreak investigation; capacity building interventions on public health emergency, scientific research, preparedness and response; strengthening early warning system for pandemics and other epidemic diseases; and support to ensure the adequacy of essential medicines, vaccines and medical devices both within the member countries and the region, alongside with the setting up a reserve of essential medical supplies, and COVID19 ASEAN Response Fund for public health emergencies. Pledges on Economic, agriculture, labor and tourismrelated issues: ensuring the resilience of supply chain, coordination for preservation, transport and distribution technologies and infrastructure to reduce food insecurity, supporting the development and implementation of a postCOVID19 Crisis Recovery Plan to build up ASEAN tourism capabilities; and addressing the impact of COVID19 on labour and employment.  However, there are shortcomings in the Regional response on the pandemic, by far the regional commitments on the meetings barely matched up with the, actions on the ground. Firstly, the coordinated regional response was difficult because of the different levels of infections, specifics national responses and political will. For instance, the responses of Singapore and Vietnam, cited as global success, quite different from other countries that lack interest in combating the disease. Secondly, the pandemic itself results in vastly fundamental tensions. The global health threat needs greater coordination and cooperation within countries in a region, however, the generic responses‘ to the crisis focused on lockdowns and border restrictions, which undermines regional integration. The lockdowns and border closures rendered migrant workers from other others within the region more vulnerable and neglected. Undocumented workers like Burmese were deported from Malaysia and thousands of migrant workers from Laos and Myanmar flocking to border crossings, defying the Bangkok lockdown to return home have been jobless. The lack of social protection of the undocumented migrant workers in and from ASEAN states poses risks to their health and access to health services. Indubitably, the economic impact of Covid19 is likely to be longterm. The Asian Development Bank assesses the economic losses in Asia and the Pacific to range between $1.7 trillion to $2.5 trillion, with the region accounting for about 30% of the overall decline in global output. The crisis henceforth calls for economic collaboration among countries within the regions to stimulate economic growth. The reshaping of world economic geography entails corresponding trends in political reorganisation. Because political trends lag behind economic changes, marketdriven logic takes over even if it does not take social goal achievement into account. The need for political mobilisation therefore arises because basic human rights and liberties are in jeopardy. This chapter illustrates the political reorganisation of the world in terms of a fourfold hierarchy and government relations. Each level of the hierarchy has its own issues and is accompanied by corresponding options for political organisation and the application of democratic principles. The author also includes a discussion of the intraregional and interregional directorates and a brief discussion regarding various aspects of regionalism.good day everyonewelcome to this subject the contemporaryworldagain i miss noviti balikot yourinstructorfor this subject so we are now in ourlesson six which isall about the world of region so in thislessonuh you are expected to look at theregions as a political entitiesexamine what brings regions togetheras they interlock with globalizationand explore the other facets ofregionalismespecially those that pertain toidentitiesethics religion ecologicalsustainability and healthand lastly conclude by asking where allof this regionalism are bringing usmembers of the nation and as a citizenof the world so world of regionsaccording to edward dmansfield and helene v milnerstate that economic and politicaldefinitions of regionsvary but there are certain basicfeatures that everyone can agree onso whenwe say a group of countries located insame geographical or specified areaor an amalgamation of two regions or acombination of more than two regionsorganized to regulate and oversee theflows and policy choiceswe refer it to as regions so example ofregions are europecentral and eastern europe region asianregionafrican region the mediterraneanand the middle east and the americas sothose regions are madeup of uh nations or countriesnow and when we saya regional concentration of economicflows and its processof dividing an area into smallersegments called regionswe are talking about regionalizationso one of the most obvious example ofregionalizationis the division of nation into differentstates or provinces so businessesuse this regionalization as a managementtool and a way to make certain thatneeds unique to a particular area aremet next is when we say a politicalprocesscharacterized by economic policycooperation and coordination amongcountrieswe mean this as reginalisem so regionalismmeaning to say a political ideologyso it seeks to increase the politicalpower or influence of the people of oneor moresubnational regions so it focusesfocuses on the development of apoliticalor social system based on one ormore region so those are some of thedefinitions important to the topicour topic for this lesson the word theworldof religions socountries or nations respondeconomically andpolitically to globalization in variouswaysfirst some countries are large enoughand have a lot of resources to dictateon how they participatein the process of global integrationso for example china now the countrychina the china offers its cheapand huge workforce to attractforeign businesses and expandtrade with other countries so same withus and japanand other countries alsomake up their small size by takingadvantagetheir strategic locationso for example the country umsingapore and switzerland so these aresmall countriesso they compensate their lack ofresourcesinto financial bunking hubsso despite its small size according tothe ambassadorto singapore kathleen mcfarlandsingapore sits stride one of the mostimportant jail strategically importantlocationsin the world so it is the economicgateway between the east and the westas one of the world's most importanttraderoutes on the malacca straits and it isthe world's largest transshipmentport so singapore also is the securitygateway between east and the west as theentrance to the south chinasea right so third in most caseshowever countries form a regionalalliance for they believe thatstrength there is strengthin numbers so when we talk aboutalliance this is an internationalrelationsit's either a formal agreement betweentwo or more states or countriesfor mutual support in case ofwar so contemporary alliancesprovide for combined action on the partof two or more independent statesand are generally defensive in natureso obligating allies to join forcesif one or more of them is attackedby another state or coalitionso for example asthe alliance of north atlantic treatyorganizationor the nato so this isfor uh military defenseno the nato is the most widely knowndefensegrouping and it is formedduring cold war so this was when thewestern european countriesplus uh western european countriesplus united states not agreedto protect europe not against the threatof the sovietunion andanother alliancefor military defense is the warsaw pactthe soviet union by then responded bycreating a regional another regionalalliance thewarsaw pact consisting of the easterneuropeancountries under the soviet uhdomination so the soviet the sovietunion implodedin december 1991 but the nattouh still remain in its placeright sothen uh regional alliancesare formed uh countries form regionalorganizations because they need topoor to pool theirresources to get whatbetter returns for their exports as wellasexpand their leverage against thetrading partnersso for examplethe organization of the petroleumcountries or the opec which wasestablished in 1960so it was established by iran thecountries iraniraq kuwaitsaudi arabia andvenezuela so this is to regulate theproductionand the sale of oil so this regionalallianceflex its its muscles in 1970swhen its member countries took over thedomestic productionand dictated the crude oil pricesin the world and opec'ssuccess convinced the nine otheroil producing countries no to jointhem all right next isuh countries form regional alliance toprotecttheir independence from the pressures ofthe superpowerpolitics so for example the presidentof the yogoslavia egypt ghanaand indonesia no created the namor what they call the nonalliedmovement in 1961to pursue world peace and internationalcooperationhuman rights national sovereigntyracial and national equality andnoninterventionand peaceful conflict resolutionso at its peak the nam or the nonalliedmovementis or had 120 membercountries so the movement however wasnever formalizedand continues to exist up to presentalthoughit lacks the same favor that it had inthepast and finallywhat brings the countries together isbecause of economic crisis now soeconomic crisiscompels countries to come togetherso for example the thaieconomy or the silent country in asiaso the thai economy collapsed in 1996so after it's fur after the foreigncurrency speculators and troubledinternational banksdemanded that the thai government paybackits loan so there is a rapid withdrawalof foreign investmentswhich bankrupted the economy of thailandso the crisis began to spread to otherasian countriesas their currencies were also devaluedin foreign investmentleft in a hurry so with this the imfif you have remembered tried to reversethe crisisbut it was only after the assailantcountriesuh which are the brunei cambodiaindonesia the lao malaysia myanmarphilippines singaporethailand and vietnam noalong with china japan and south koreaagreed toestablish an emergency fund toanticipate a crisisa crisis that assayan economistsstabilized so the crisis made saiyanmore united and coordinatedall right soit is not only the state states orcountries agreedto work or to join together in the nameof a single cause or because of onereasoncommunities also engage in regionoriginal organizing no so thisis what we call the near regionalismso they can be a tiny associationsmall associations that include no moremore than a few actors and focus on asingle issue or aor huge continental unions that addressa multitude of common problemsfrom territorial defense to foodsecuritysecurity so organizations i'mrepresenting this new regionalismlikewise rely on the power ofindividuals uh nongovernmentorganizations orngos and associations to leadto link up with one another in pursuitof a particulargoal also this new regionalismis identified with reformist whoshares the same values normsinstitutions and systemsthat exist outside of the traditionaland established mainstream institutionsand systemsso some organizationspartner with government to initiatesocial change for example the assayanissued its human rights declaration in2009but the regional body left it to themember countries to apply the degreethe declarations principles as they seeit fitso aware of those democratic rights arelimited in many asian countriesso this new regionalism organizationsuse this uh declaration to pressurethesegovernments to pass lawsaside from that uh some regulationsthat protect and promote humanrights soum examples of these originalorganizationswhich dedicate themselves to specializedcauses these are the rainforestfoundationthe regional interfaith youth networksorganizationthe migrant forum in asiaso let's start with the one organ withone organization which is the rainforestorganizationa rainforest foundation which isestablished by the activists acrossum central and south americaso what is the aim of this organizationit it aimed to protect the indigenouspeopleand the rainforest of brazil guyanapanama and peru so another organizationis the regional interfaith youthnetworks so thisis formed by the young christians acrossafrica the middle east the americas andthe caribbeanwhat is the aim to promotecon conflict preventionconflict resolution peace educationand sustainable developmentlastly last example is the migrant forumasia this is another regular ngoand tradable unions which is communityto protect and promote the rights andthe welfareof the migrant workersso those are umexamples of the regional organizationsknownwith a specialized or which dedicatethemselves to specializedclasses so these organizations primarilyliesin their moral standing and theirability to combinelobbying with pressure politics sounfortunatelymost of them are poorly financedso this places them at a disadvantagewhendealing with their official counterpartswho have large statefunds so their impact in global politpolitics however is or therefore islimited so this new regionalismdiffers significantly from thetraditional stateto state regionalism so when it comes toidentifyingproblems for example statetreat poverty organization environmentdegradationas technical or economic issues that canberesolved by refining existing programsof stateagencies and making minor changes ineconomic policiesand creating new offices that addressthisissue however near regionalregionalism advocates such asthe ngo global forum seethese issues as a reflections of aflawed economic developmentand environmental modernso todaythis regionalismfaces multiple challengesand the most serious of which is theresurgence of militant nationalismand populism so the relationship forexampleof the united stso the alliance core member with thenatohas become problematic after donaldtrumpdemonized the organization as simplyhe believed that it is just leechingamericanmilitary power withoutgiving anything in returnso another example is themost crisisridden regional organizationtodayis the european unionso the continuing financial crisisof the regions forcing countries likegreecelike greece to consider leaving theunion ain the union who gain more flexibilityto gain more flexibility in theireconomic policyso antiimmigrant sentiment and apopularpopulist campaign against europe havealready ledto the united kingdom voting to leavethe european unionin the move the media has turned thebrexitright so asylum members alsoanother challenge to re uh toregionalismin asia the assayan members continue todisagree over the extentto which member countries shouldsacrifice their sovereigntyfor the sake of regional stabilityso recently saiyan countries alsodisagreedover how to relate to chinaso with the philippines and able to getother countries supportto support the condemnation of china'soccupationin the west philippinesea sofinal challenge to regionalismis the differing visions of whatregionally regionalism should be for thewestern governmentsno so for the western governmentsthey see regional organizationsnot simply as economic formationsbut also an instrument of politicaldemocratization andon the other hand the nonwestern anddeveloping societies howevermay have a different view regardingglobalism globalization development anddemocratdemocracy like singapore chinaand russia they see democracy asan obstacle to the implementation andthe deepening ofeconomic globalization because constantpublic inquiry abouteconomic projects and lengthy debateslow downthe implementation or lead to unclearoutcomes rightsothe factors or the difference betweenglobalization and regionalismis that globalization as we all knowit signifies the events relating to theglobe all over the worldand it is the way countries and peopleof the world interact orintegrate so while the termregionalizationrefers to the event across regionsthat are subglobal like europenorthern northern northern americaamazon in brazilyen and these regionsare formed by two fucktorswe have here physical and culturalfactors physical is defined by thelandformsno like continent mountain ranges soilnatural vegetationsand another one regions are formedbecause ofcultural factor which is distinguisheddistinguishedby such traits languages politicsreligions economic and industriesand these regions are kept togetherthrough the followingso like natural factor history factoradministrationand communication so we have also thesefactors whichleads to the greater integration of theasynregion like tradesimilar culture common goalsmutual beliefs similar securityand similarsecurity needs soindeed the history of regionalismshows that regional associationsemerge as the new global concernarise so the future of this regionalismwill be contingenton the immense changes in the globalpoliticsthat will emerge in the 21stASIAN REGIONALISMChapter 2Asian Regionalism:Context and ScopeEmerging Asian Regionalism26Chapter 2Asian regionalism:context and scopeAsian regionalism is the product of economic interaction,not political planning. As a result of successful, outwardoriented growth strategies, Asian economies have grownnot only richer, but also closer together. In recent years,new technological trends have further strengthened tiesamong them, as have the rise of the PRC and India and the region’sgrowing weight in the global economy. But adversity also played arole. The 1997/98 financial crisis dealt a severe setback to much of theregion, highlighting Asia’s shared interests and common vulnerabilitiesand providing an impetus for regional cooperation. The challengenow facing Asia’s policy makers is simply put yet incredibly complex:Where markets have led, how should governments follow?In the early stages of Asia’s economic takeoff, regional integrationproceeded slowly. East Asian economies, in particular, focusedon exporting to developed country markets rather than sellingto each other. Initially, they specialized in simple, laborintensivemanufactures. As the more advanced among them graduated to moresophisticated products, less developed economies filled the gap thatthey left behind. The Japanese economist Akamatsu (1962) famouslycompared this pattern of development to flying geese. In this model,economies moved in formation not because they were directlylinked to each other, but because they followed similar paths. Sincethese development paths hinged on sequential—and sometimescompeting—ties to markets outside the region, they did not initiallyyield strong economic links within Asia itself.Now, though, Asian economies are becoming closely intertwined.This is not because the region’s development strategy has changed;it remains predominantly nondiscriminatory and outwardoriented.Rather, interdependence is deepening because Asia’s economies havegrown large and prosperous enough to become important to eachother, and because their patterns of production increasingly dependAsian Regionalism: Context and Scope27on networks that span several Asian economies and involve wideranging exchanges of parts and components among them. Asia is atthe center of the development of such production networks becauseit has efficient transport and communication links, as well as policiesgeared to supporting trade. As these new production patterns tieAsian economies closer together, they also boost the internationalcompetitiveness of the region’s firms.Against this background, the financial crisis that swept throughAsia in 1997/98—in this chapter, referred to simply as “the crisis”—putthe region’s interdependence into harsh new focus. Emerging Asianeconomies that had opened up their financial markets—Indonesia,the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand—wereworst hit, but nearly all Asian economies were eventually affected.Most then used the crisis as an opportunity to pursue widerangingreforms in finance as well as in other areas of weakness that thecrisis exposed. Asia emerged with a greater appreciation of its sharedinterests and the value of regional cooperation. Since the crisis, Asiahas become not only more integrated, but also more willing to pulltogether.This chapter traces the progress of Asian integration and exploresits implications for the future. It begins by exploring the connectionsbetween Asia’s development patterns and economic integration.It then examines the challenges interdependence poses for policy,setting the stage for subsequent chapters.2.1.	Growth and integrationAsian regionalism is emerging against the backdrop of a remarkablehalf century of economic development. In the four decades from 1956to 1996, East Asian living standards—as measured by real (inflationadjusted) output per person—rose at a rate faster than has everbeen sustained anywhere else. Of the 10 economies that recordedaverage rises of 4.5% a year or more during that period, 8 were in EastAsia—as were all four that exceeded 5.0%. Other Asian economiesrank in the upper tiers of the world’s growth distribution. Over thosefour decades, living standards in the 16 integrating Asian economiesanalyzed in this study grew at an average of 5.0% a year, while theworld as a whole averaged only 1.9% (Figure 2.1). Although manyother countries have experienced rapid growth over several years(Hausmann, Rodrik, and Pritchett 2004; Jones and Olken 2005), thiscluster of sustained, consistent outperformance is unprecedented.Emerging Asian Regionalism28These extraordinary results were achieved by economies thatdiffered widely in size; incomes; endowments of natural, human,and capital resources; specialization patterns; political organization;language; culture; and history. While the economies’ development hasnot resulted from a uniform strategy, the evidence suggests that theirpolicies and growth trajectories involved basic similarities (WorldBank 1993).Flying in sequenceCompetition in global markets is at the heart of what is now understoodas the East Asian development model (Kuznets 1988). When the modelemerged in the 1950s, its focus on laborintensive exports was new; theprevailing “big push” development strategy favored large, coordinated02832121037< 3 3~1.5 1.5~0 0~1.5 1.5~3.0 3.0~4.5 > 4.5 Number of economiesIncludes:People's Rep. ofChina; Hong Kong,China; Japan;Republic of Korea;Malaysia;Singapore;Taipei,China; andThailand.Includes:IndonesiaIncludes: Philippines1.75.01.9Rest of the WorldIntegrating AsiaWorldFigure 2.1. Asia’s exceptional growth recordWorld distribution of economies by longterm per capita growth rateGDP = gross domestic product.Source: CICUP 2007. Penn World Tables. Available: http://pwt.econ.upenn.edu/ (accessedOctober 2007).a. Average per capita GDP growth rate, 1956–1996b. Average per capita GDP growth rate, 1956–1996Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope29investments in a bid to achieve economies of scale, usually in importcompeting industries. East Asian development instead relied on theregion’s abundant asset of relatively welleducated, lowwage laborand in time leveraged it with ample savings and investment. At first,East Asia exported simple, laborintensive manufactures at lowprices to meet its urgent need for foreign exchange. Subsequently, itcreated a framework for sustained growth as economies imported,adapted, and eventually developed internationally competitivetechnologies. The region moved from laborintensive products intomany sophisticated activities—principally in manufacturing—whichnow include worldclass process capabilities and prestigious globalbrands. Asia is also becoming competitive in service industries.The model emerged in Japan in the aftermath of World War II.Although Japan was already industrialized, the war had devastated itseconomy and sharply lowered its wages. Access to markets in the USenabled Japan to develop laborintensive exports, fuelling a dramaticrise in savings, investment, and economic growth. As Japan’s exportsshifted to more advanced products, East Asia’s newly industrializingeconomies—Hong Kong, China; the Republic of Korea; Singapore;and Taipei,China—filled the gap for laborintensive exports. In time,Southeast Asia and the PRC followed a similar trajectory. Althoughthese waves differed in some respects, they produced dramaticspurts of growth, as Figure 2.2 shows. Average per capita incomegrowth in Japan exceeded 5% a year from the 1950s on. The newlyindustrializing economies entered a similar highgrowth phase in theearly 1960s, followed by several Southeast Asian economies in theearly 1970s and the PRC in the late 1970s. A new wave is now takingshape in other South and Southeast Asian economies.These remarkable successes were achieved thanks toreceptive global markets as well as sound national policies.Since the establishment of the GATT in 1947, eight rounds ofinternational negotiations have slashed developed countries’barriers to manufactured imports. World trade has expanded27fold since 1950, three times faster than world output growth (WTO2007). In this favorable environment, Asian economies took advantageof a wide range of global opportunities, and their connections withmarkets both inside and outside the region grew very rapidly.By the time the East Asian model had become widely celebrated(World Bank 1993), it had been at work for four decades. Use of themodel had raised incomes in many Asian countries and was widelyemulated around the world. Opportunities for regional transactionsEmerging Asian Regionalism30Figure 2.2. Successive waves of rapid developmentGrowth rates of percapita GDP of selected Asian economiesASEAN=Association of Southeast Asian Nations, GDP=gross domestic product,NIE=newly industrializing economy, PRC=People’s Republic of China.Asian NIEs include Hong Kong, China; Republic of Korea; Singapore; and Taipei,China.ASEAN5 economies include: Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, and Viet Nam.Source: CICUP 2007. Penn World Tables. Available: http://pwt.econ.upenn.edu/(accessed October 2007).195602468101961 1966 1971 1976 1981 1986 1991 1996Annual per capita GDP % growth rateJapan Asian NIEs ASEAN5 PRCJapanAsian NIEsASEAN5PRCincreased, but so did the potential for intensified competition amongexporters and resistance to exports in external markets.As more countries adopted laborintensive growth strategies,multinationals became adept at shifting production from one lowcost economy to another. The emergence of the PRC, given its sheersize, unsettled regional trading patterns. By the mid1990s, the PRCaccounted for 20% of Asian trade and 70% of the region’s foreigndirect investment (FDI) inflows. While the PRC emerged as a vigorouscompetitor, its growth also created new market opportunities for theregion’s finished products, raw materials, and especially intermediateinputs. In effect, the growth of the PRC helped to catalyze thedevelopment of regional production networks. Thus, while the PRCcaused large and often difficult adjustments in the region’s exports(Loungani 2000, Eichengreen and Tong 2006), it also injected newenergy into Asian trade. Asian exports soared again after the crisisand came to be increasingly directed toward regional markets.While East Asia’s real sector grew more sophisticated, its financialsector remained relatively underdeveloped. In many countries, thefinancial sector had initially served as a conduit for official investmentpolicies, with funds channeled to companies mostly through banksAsian Regionalism: Context and Scope31rather than through capital markets. With some notable exceptions,including two—Hong Kong, China and Singapore—the region’scapital markets lagged behind their peers in other parts of the world(McKinnon 1993, Arestis and Demetriades 1997). Close bankingrelationships in turn led to high corporate leverage, and neither banksnor companies developed extensive expertise in managing risk.The reform of East Asia’s financial systems began well beforethe crisis, but the legacy of financial repression persisted. In themid1990s, several Asian economies deregulated their financialsectors and opened their capital accounts (Park and Bae 2002),following what was then a nearconsensus strategy. Liberalizationwas widely advocated in the economic literature and by internationalorganizations, and was embedded in the new services agreements ofWTO. Liberalization unfolded initially in the benign context of boomingeconomies and strong global financial markets, and it appeared towork—even without rigorous prudential regulation. Asian securitiesbecame desirable to international investors both because they wereseen as intrinsically valuable and because they were thought to carryimplicit government guarantees.While financial deregulation promised substantial longtermbenefits, in the short term, it created vulnerabilities. Capital accountliberalization, in particular, complicated macroeconomic management.To stimulate investment and exports, East Asian governments hadtraditionally pursued mildly expansionary fiscal and monetarypolicies, along with stable exchange rates. Over time, these policiestended to lead to inflation and real exchange rate overvaluation. MostEast Asian economies had experienced such cycles, usually ending indevaluation (Kim, Kose, and Plummer 2003).5 But the liberalizationof capital accounts made this policy mix riskier. When a governmentsought to defend its currency peg by raising interest rates, it wouldattract substantial inflows of money brought in for speculation,which could quickly flow out if the peg’s viability came into doubt.Speculative attacks could force rapid devaluations and, throughinteractions with a vulnerable financial sector, severe financial andeconomic downturns.The crisis and its legacyEven with hindsight, though, the events of 1997/98 seem improbable.The crisis struck some of the world’s most successful economies and,5 For example, Indonesia in 1978 and 1982, Thailand in 1979, the Republic of Koreain 1980, and Malaysia and Singapore in 1985.Emerging Asian Regionalism32in short order, brought down governments, threatened seeminglywellestablished firms and institutions, and imposed severe hardshipon hundreds of millions of people. Yet it proved to be short, andeconomic activity rebounded quickly. The crisis also had a silverlining. It stimulated difficult policy and institutional reforms toremedy the structural weaknesses in East Asian economies that ithad exposed. It also highlighted Asia’s growing interdependence,weaknesses in the global financial system, and thus the benefits ofAsian cooperation.The details of the crisis, which are summarized in Figure 2.3, havebeen extensively analyzed.6 On 2 July 1997, Thailand abandoned itsshort but costly defense of the baht against speculative attack. Thebaht plunged. The attacks then spread to Indonesia, Malaysia, thePhilippines, and eventually Hong Kong, China; the Republic of Korea;and Taipei,China. Only the PRC and Hong Kong, China withstood thepressure to float or devalue. The attacks soon ended. Most East Asiancurrencies bottomed out in January 1998, although the repercussionsof these events reverberated around the world and eventually led toa global liquidity crisis in October 1998. After an emergency cut in USinterest rates, global liquidity returned almost immediately and thecrisis was over (Marshall 2001).The economic impact of the crisis was severe. The currencycrisis led to a banking crisis in several economies, and the resultingcollapse in credit led to deep recessions. These developments wereexacerbated, in some countries, by a controversial deflationarypolicy mix (adopted in the context of International Monetary Fund programs). The programs included monetary tightening, fiscalrestraint, and prompt structural reform, accompanied by actions thatclosed failing financial and nonfinancial companies (Berg 1999). AsFigure 2.3 shows, once credit markets recovered and macroeconomicpolicies were loosened, output rebounded. All of the affectedeconomies—except Hong Kong, China; Indonesia; and Japan—expanded in 1999. Deep scars remained; poverty rates rose in manycountries and, in most, growth did not return to precrisis levels.Debate continues on whether the crisis was triggered by macroor microeconomic fundamentals, or simply by too many investors“rushing for the exit” (Radelet et al. 1998). The suddenness, rapidgeographic spread, and brevity of the crisis suggest that financialpanic was important—perhaps dominant—but, as in most complex6 Good summaries of the chronology of the crisis are provided by Berg (1999),Joosten (2004), and World Bank (1998 and 2000).Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope33Figure 2.3. Timeline of the Asian financial crisisJune 1996–June 1999GDP = gross domestic product, HK$ = Hong Kong dollar, IMF = International Monetary Fund, ln = logarithm (natural), NT$ = New Taiwan dollar,S$ = Singapore dollar, US$ = United States dollar.Source: Data from IMF various years. International Financial Statistics. Available: http://www.imfstatistics.org/ (accessed October 2007).1.000.750.500.250.000.250.500.7515Jun199615Sep199615Dec199615Mar199715Jun199715Sep199715Dec199715Mar199815Jun199815Sep199815Dec199815Mar199915Jun1999ln (currency/US$, 7/1996=1)129630369PercentExchangeRateGDPgrowthThailandwarningsBahtoatsPeso,ringgit,rupiah,oatHK$, S$,NT$, won,under pressureBenchmark Rep.of Korea IMFprogram agreedCrisis spreads toRussian Federation,Latin AmericaGlobal liquiditycrunch; US FederalReserve intervenesRecoverymostly underwaySimple averages for 5 mostcrisisaffected countriesGDP Growth Currency/US$economic phenomena, multiple causes played a role (World Bank1998). Stronger macroeconomic policies and financial systems inthe affected economies might have prevented it; more decisiveand appropriate action by the international financial communitycould have limited its damage (Ito 2007); and, had an Asian regionalfinancing facility existed, it might have provided more timely andbettertailored support.On the eve of the crisis, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, andThailand all faced macroeconomic imbalances and fragile financialsectors. Their currentaccount deficits—in the range of 1–3% of grossdomestic product (GDP)—were perhaps not indefinitely sustainable,but could have been corrected gradually, given their histories ofessentially sound fiscal policies and sustained economic growth. Thereis little doubt, however, that the vulnerability of the region’s financialsector contributed to sudden and widespread liquidity concerns. TheEmerging Asian Regionalism34combination of capital account liberalization and new, untested, andinadequately supervised domestic financial institutions generated a“double mismatch.” In effect, shortterm, foreign currency debt wasused to fund longterm, local currency assets (Kawai, Newfarmer, andSchmukler 2005). Once currencies began to depreciate and foreignlenders withdrew funds, a downward spiral ensued.There were no “circuit breakers”—national or regional—to haltthe downturn. As the double mismatch problem came to be widelyunderstood, currency runs followed, saddling companies and financialinstitutions with unmanageable foreign currency liabilities. Becausetheir debt was held by banks, bank runs followed. And becauseseveral countries shared these structural characteristics, bad newsabout one quickly led to a loss of confidence in others. The region,as a whole, lacked institutional arrangements or resources to tacklethe crisis. So, despite the limited geographic extent of the crisis, onlyglobal institutions were in a position to help. The adequacy of theirresponse, as already noted, is still debated, but the interventionsclearly failed to restore confidence in the short run, and may evenhave aggravated the panic.7While other Asian economies plunged into deep recession, thePRC was barely affected because its capital account was closed.Rather than devaluing or pursuing austerity, the PRC sustainedaggregate demand by replacing exports with public investment.Growth scarcely dipped. To gain similar room for maneuver, Malaysiaalso restricted capital movements in September 1998. The preciseimpact of this decision is difficult to assess; by the time the capitalcontrols were imposed, currency markets were stabilizing acrossthe region. In any case, the controls did not prevent Malaysia fromcontinuing to attract investment capital and may well have createdadditional space for expansionary policies that accelerated itsrecovery (Athukorala 2007a).Asia soon turned the crisis into an opportunity for reform. At anational level, most of its economies gained experience in coping withfinancial distress and, as evidence in Chapter 4 will show, developedinstitutions to facilitate corporate restructuring and to make theirfinancial sectors less vulnerable. Regionally, they established newmechanisms to provide emergency resources for future crises. The7 These initiatives were under the stabilization programs negotiated withthe International Monetary Fund (IMF). Thailand closed 56 nonbank financialinstitutions in the early months of the crisis and took control of four domesticbanks, Indonesia closed 23 banks, and the Republic of Korea closed 14 banks.Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope35lessons of the crisis are summarized in the appendix to this chapter.8Two broad conclusions stand out.• First, rapid development inevitably creates structural tensions,such as the lagging development of East Asia’s financialsector, which tend to be masked by strong growth. Economicdevelopment requires the parallel development of soundinstitutions and good governance, but this does not happenautomatically.• Second, Asian economies have deeper connections with eachother and a larger stake in their common macroeconomicstability than was previously understood. Integrating Asiarequires strong cooperative mechanisms that aim to avoidcrises (through surveillance) and to manage and contain thosethat arise (through liquidity support).RenaissanceSince the crisis, Asia has reemerged as the world’s most dynamicregion, experiencing what a new World Bank study has called the EastAsian renaissance (Gill and Kharas 2007). But the pattern of Asiandevelopment has changed. The PRC, India, and Viet Nam are now theregion’s—and the world’s—fastest growing economies. Because thePRC and India are also the world’s most populous countries, their risedramatically changes the regional and global economic landscapes.Most other countries in the region are also growing solidly, if lessspectacularly than before the crisis. Growth in the directly affectedeconomies of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN),though disappointing compared to earlier periods, is also graduallystrengthening (Figure 2.4).The slowdown of growth in most crisisaffected economies reflectsa decline in their rates of investment.9 In the newly industrializingeconomies, for example, the share of investment in GDP fell from8 Much literature exists on lessons from the crisis. Some articles involve studiesby IMF (2003) and individuals involved in the management of the crisis (Furmanand Stiglitz 1998, Berg 1999, Fischer 2002). Others represent an Asian perspective(Kawai, Newfarmer, and Schmukler 2005; Ito 2007; Lee and Rhee 2007; Sussangkarnand Vichyanond 2007).9 This experience is consistent with recent research that finds that the aftereffectsof a crisis can linger for many years, and that few economies make up the groundthey lose during the crisis itself (Cerra and Saxena 2005). In more favorable cases,output growth returns to precrisis levels, but even then the output trajectorytends to remain permanently lower due to slow or negative growth during thecrisis. In less favorable cases, the postcrisis growth rate also declines (Beckerand Mauro 2006).Emerging Asian Regionalism36Figure 2.4. Asia’s robust recoveryReal GDP growth rates of selected Asian economiesASEAN = Association of Southeast Asian Nations, GDP = gross domestic product, NIE = newly industrializing economy.Asian NIEs include Hong Kong, China; Republic of Korea; Singapore; and Taipei,China.ASEAN5 economies include Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, and Viet Nam.Source: ADB 2008c. Statistical Database System. Available: https://sdbs.adb.org/sdbs/index.jsp (accessed April 2008).People’s Republic of China India Asian NIEs ASEAN51050510151988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007Percent31% to 25%; in the largest ASEAN economies, from 30% to 23%. Thesedeclines are not due to a drop in the productivity of investment (at leastas measured by the incremental capitaloutput ratio) or to inadequatesavings. Rather, they reflect increased investment abroad. The causeof this investment shift remains a puzzle (Kramer 2006). It could be adecline in profitable investment opportunities at home, perceptionsof continuing high risks at home, or a desire by governments toaccumulate foreign exchange reserves as insurance—or perhaps acombination of all three. In the more advanced economies—Malaysia;Singapore; and Taipei,China—the decline in investment may representa natural deceleration from rates that were unsustainably high. Theinvestment slowdown (and prospects for its reversal in countrieswith potential for rapid growth) is further analyzed in Chapter 5.Meanwhile, the PRC, India, and some smaller Asian countrieshave emerged as the region’s growth engines (Srinivasan 2004).The PRC’s true “great leap forward” since the late 1970s is withouthistorical parallel (Lin 2004). This economy of 1.3 billion people hasfor the past 30 years grown at an annual rate of 9.7%—over threetimes faster than the world’s. Within a generation, the PRC has beenAsian Regionalism: Context and Scope37transformed from an inefficiently planned economy into a major,dynamic, mostly marketbased economy. In 2005, the PRC accountedfor 5% of the world economy at market exchange rates and 10% interms of purchasing power. It is already the secondlargest exporterin the world.India’s acceleration, although more recent, is also impressive.With 1.1 billion people and rapid population growth, India appearsset to be the world’s most populous country within two decades. Itseconomy has grown by 6.3% a year since major reforms were enacted in1991, and almost as fast in the previous decade, following the reformsof 1980 (Ahluwalia 2005). In 2003–2006, growth averaged 8.5%. YetIndia still accounts for only 2% of world output at market prices andless than 5% at purchasing power parity (PPP). As a relatively closedeconomy, it also contributes only 1% of world trade. But at currentgrowth rates, these shares will increase rapidly. India’s economyis not yet on a par with the PRC’s, but its global impact is alreadysignificant, notably in services. India’s infrastructure needs are vastand are likely to become a major driver of regional investment.There are good reasons to be optimistic about the PRC’s andIndia’s prospects. Their large markets and lowcost, relativelywelleducated labor forces make them top investment targets.They are especially attractive sites for new industrial clusters andproduction networks. And their growth is likely to energize industrialdevelopment throughout the region in sectors such as electronics,information technology, business services, textiles, chemicals, andpharmaceuticals (Ando 2005).To compete with the PRC and India, as well as the otherintegrating economies of the EU, NAFTA, and other regionalgroups, the governments of smaller Asian economies—particularlyin Southeast Asia—are now intent on building larger economiczones with transparent internal borders. In announcing ASEAN’scommitment to a single market, senior officials explicitly noted theneed to make markets large enough to compete with those of the PRCand India (The Times of India 2006). The absorption of Asia’s gianteconomies into the regional and global trading systems presents oneof the central challenges and opportunities facing Asia and the worldin coming decades (Eichengreen 2006a).Asia in 2020Asia’s outlook is bright. While longterm projections are inherentlyspeculative and contested, Asia is likely to continue to outperformover the next decade. Whether the PRC and India can sustain theEmerging Asian Regionalism38Table 2.1. Population and GDP projections for 2020EconomiesPopulation GDP at market prices GDP at PPP GDP per capita(million) ($ billion)Averagegrowthrate($ billion) (at market prices)2005 2020 2005 2020 2005–2020 2005 2020 2005 2020Cambodia 13.8 18.6 6 15 6.3 20 48 454 806China, People’s Rep. of 1,303.7 1,422.8 2,244 5,877 6.6 5,333 13,970 1,721 4,131Hong Kong, China 6.8 7.1 178 353 4.7 243 483 26,094 49,718India 1,101.3 1,295.7 779 1,748 5.6 2,341 5,255 707 1,349Indonesia 218.9 259.5 287 611 5.2 708 1,506 1,311 2,355Japan 127.8 123.3 4,549 5,806 1.7 3,870 4,939 35,604 47,088Korea, Republic of 48.1 50.5 791 1,580 4.7 1,027 2,052 16,441 31,287Lao People’s Dem. Rep. 5.7 7.2 3 5 3.7 10 18 508 694Malaysia 26.1 31.1 137 313 5.7 300 682 5,250 10,064Philippines 85.3 103.3 99 166 3.6 250 421 1,158 1,607Singapore 4.3 4.9 117 240 4.6 180 371 26,879 48,980Taipei,China 22.7 24.4 355 641 4.0 590 1,067 15,674 26,270Thailand 64.8 69.5 176 347 4.6 445 877 2,721 4,993Viet Nam 83.1 97.5 53 117 5.5 178 394 637 1,200Integrating Asia 3,112.7 3,515.9 9,783 17,839 4.1 15,514 32,120 3,143 5,074European Union 450.6 472.1 13,568 19,176 2.3 12,743 18,011 30,111 40,619United States 296.4 331.2 12,376 19,904 3.2 12,376 19,904 41,754 60,097World 6,128.1 7,462.1 44,309 75,001 3.6 54,976 93,057 7,230 10,051GDP = gross domestic product, PPP = purchasing power parity.Note: “Integrating Asia” and “World” rows are not totals of columns above them.Sources: Asian Development Bank staff projections based on International Comparison Program data from ADB 2007c.Available: http://www.adb.org (accessed March 2008); and World Bank various years. World Development Indicators. Available: http://www.worldbank.org (accessed March 2008).torrid pace of their recent growth is more debatable. While theinvestment firm Goldman Sachs expects the PRC to continue to growby 10% annually and India by 9% annually, most other forecastersexpect growth to moderate. The Japan Center for Economic Research,for instance, projects annual growth of 6% in the PRC and 5% in India.Projections by ADB (2007c) fall in between (Table 2.1). According tothese projections, Asia’s share of world output and income will expandfrom 28% in 2005 to 35% in 2020 in purchasing power parity (PPP)Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope39terms, even though Japan’s output is projected to grow by under 2%annually. By 2020, Asia’s GDP (PPP—terms) is set to be more than60% larger than the EU’s or North America’s. The PRC would accountfor much of this gain: its share of world output is expected to risefrom 10% to 15%. At market prices, these increases are less dramaticbut still very substantial.10Asia’s average per capita income would rise from some $3,000in 2005 to about $5,000 (in 2005 dollars) in 2020, a level roughlyequivalent to Malaysia’s today. Per capita incomes would more thandouble in some countries, including the PRC, but would still fall farshort of those in the world’s wealthiest economies. Clearly, rapidincome growth will remain a high priority for Asian countries in theforeseeable future.These trends also suggest that regional integration will becomeincreasingly important for Asia’s growth. On the demand side, Asiawill benefit from its own expanding spending power. On the supplyside, its productivity will be enhanced by the advantages of its larger,more integrated economy. Asia’s economic scale will offer exceptionalopportunities for efficient production, including opportunities forproduction networks to connect varied costsaving locations.The wideranging implications of Asian growth are explored insubsequent chapters. Trade and financial activities are of particularinterest because these sectors usually expand faster than output.Since trade and finance are also key drivers of regional integration,their continued development will increase interdependence. Andbecause the region’s growth and integration feed on each other,opportunities for cooperation should continue to expand rapidly, notjust on regional issues but also with respect to the region’s role in theworld economy.2.2.	The rise of regionalismRegionalism is multidimensional—it encompasses deepeninginterdependence in various spheres of economic activity, wideningcooperative efforts, and a growing commitment to internationalcollaboration. How is regional integration progressing in differentareas? Which countries are participating most actively? Which10 The longterm projections were prepared by Asian Development Bank (ADB)staff in 2006 as background for strategic analysis. They have been adjusted totake account of new purchasing power parity (PPP) estimates (ADB 2007f). Theunderlying growth rates lie within a fairly broad range of estimates recentlypublished by private and public research organizations.Emerging Asian Regionalism40103050701955 1965 1975 1985 1995 2005PercentIntegrating Asia North America European UnionNotes:European Union includes all 25 members as of 2005.Integrating Asia includes Brunei Darussalam; Cambodia; People’s Republic of China;Hong Kong, China; India; Indonesia; Japan; Republic of Korea; Lao People’s DemocraticRepublic; Malaysia; Myanmar; Philippines; Singapore; Taipei,China; Thailand; and Viet Nam.The intraregional trade share is defined as: (Xii + Mii) / (Xi. + Mi.) where Xii is exports ofregion i to region i; Mii is imports of region i from region i; Xi . is total exports of region i;and Mi . is total imports of region i.Source: Data from IMF various years. Direction of Trade Statistics. Available: http://www.imf.org (accessed October 2007).Figure 2.5. Increasing intraregional trade sharesLongterm trend: 1955–2005represent the region’s strongest links to external markets? Theevolution of Asian regionalism can be assessed on a wide range ofmeasures, but each confirms a remarkable coming together of diverseeconomies.Measuring interdependenceThe most common measure of interdependence—the share of aregion’s total trade conducted within it—has risen in Asia from arounda fifth in the aftermath of World War II to a third or so in the 1980s,and to over half in recent years (Figure 2.5). Asia is now broadly asinterdependent in trade as the EU and North America each is. Indeed,Asia now trades more with itself than either the EU or North Americadid at the outset of their integration efforts.Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope41Notes:European Union includes all 25 members as of 2005.Integrating Asia includes Brunei Darussalam; Cambodia; People’s Republic of China;Hong Kong, China; India; Indonesia; Japan; Republic of Korea; Lao People’s DemocraticRepublic; Malaysia; Myanmar; Philippines; Singapore; Taipei,China; Thailand; and Viet Nam.Intraregional trade intensity is defined as:  / where Xii is exports of region i to region i; Mii is imports of region i from region i; Xi. is totalexports of region i; Mi. is total imports of region i; X.i is total exports of region i to the world;M.i is total imports of the region to the world; X.. is total world exports; and M.. is totalworld imports.Source: Data from IMF various years. Direction of Trade Statistics. Available: http://www.imf.org (accessed October 2007).1955 1965 1975 1985 1995 2005Trade intensity indexIntegrating Asia North America European Union1.01.52.02.53.0Figure 2.6. Adjusting intraregional trade intensitiesLongterm trend: 1955–2005A more demanding indicator of interdependence—the intensityof regional trade or the region’s bias for trading with regionalpartners11—is plotted in Figure 2.6. Unlike the share of intraregionaltrade, the intensity indicator does not rise just because the region’sweight is increasing in the world economy; it rises only if the shareof a region’s trade with itself rises more rapidly than its share ofworld markets. The regional intensity of trade started out high in theaftermath of World War II. While Asian economies were too small totrade much, they traded disproportionately with their neighbors;Asia’s trade with Asian partners was around 4½ times as large as itstrade with similarlysized partners outside the region. This bias then11 The index is calculated by dividing the share of intraregional trade in its overalltrade by the share of its trade in global trade.Emerging Asian Regionalism42declined until well into the 1990s, as Asian countries successfullypenetrated markets around the world and acquired the means toimport from them. Since about the time of the crisis, however, theregional intensity of Asia’s trade has also begun to rise.A still broader measure of interdependence needs to includeother important channels such as direct investment, financial flows,macroeconomic links, and personal contacts (Chua 2004). To this end,data on six indicators of Asian economic integration were collectedfor each Asian economy before and after the crisis. These provideinsight into Asia’s integration by country and channel—a summary ofthe dimensions of regional relationships that will be explored in laterchapters.As with any summary measure, this evidence needs to beinterpreted cautiously. Proxies for complex processes may beoversimplified; for example, the tradepolicycooperation indicatordoes not capture the depth or significance of trade agreements northe variety of other cooperative policies. And, of course, statisticalcorrelations—used as indicators of comovements in output growthrates and equity returns—could reflect common reactions to globalforces rather than regional relationships.Results for the six indicators, averaged across Integrating Asia,are presented in Figure 2.7. In analyzing these results, one shouldbear in mind that regional integration is not an inevitable outcomeof economic development. Indeed, the extent of regional integrationsuggested by Figure 2.7 is somewhat surprising, given the importanceof globalization as a contemporary trend. Rapidly developingeconomies—especially large or highly specialized ones—require,and usually develop, strong global connections. In addition, decliningtrade barriers, falling transport and communication costs, and theharmonization of world business practices could be expected to tiltthe balance toward distant (global) rather than nearby (regional) ties.Yet this does not appear to be the case; on average across IntegratingAsia, all six indicators have increased from the pre to the postcrisisperiod. The likely explanation is that the region’s exceptional growthand its networkbased production systems, as well as the investmentand labor flows associated with these, have increased the relativeimportance of regional relationships. 1212 Regional integration is not confined to Asia. Although technological changeis supposedly making the world “flatter,” around the world regional trade flowsare increasing more rapidly than extraregional ones (Mansfield and Milner 1999,Ravenhill 2003).Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope43Figure 2.7. Advancing integration: regional indicators, pre and postcrisis0.00.20.81.00.40.6Trade policy cooperation0.43 0.65TourismIntraregional tradeForeign direct investmentEquity marketsMacroeconomic links0.61 0.650.35 0.520.52 0.720.27 0.530.07 0.54Notes:Data are calculated for the 16 integrating Asian economies, except as noted below.Trade policy cooperation: Density of free trade agreements among integrating Asian economies (share of pairwise trade relations that are undera free trade agreement, with a weighting of 1.0 for concluded agreements, 0.5 for agreements under negotiations, 0.25 for agreements understudy)—precrisis, until 1997; postcrisis: 1998–2007)Foreign direct investment: Intraregional foreign direct investment share among integrating Asian economies—precrisis, 1982–1996; postcrisis,1999–2002.Equity markets: Correlation of detrended quarterly equity price changes, with simple average for integrating Asian economies—precrisis,1990:Q2–1996:Q4; postcrisis, 2000:Q1–2007:Q2. Data not available for India and Viet Nam.Macroeconomic links: Correlation of detrended quarterly growth rates of gross domestic product, with a simple average for integrating Asianeconomies—precrisis, 1988–1996; postcrisis, 1999–2007. Data not available for India and Viet Nam.Intraregional trade: Intraregional trade share—precrisis, 1980–1996 average; postcrisis, 2000–2006 average.Tourism: Share of intraregional tourist inflows and outflows—precrisis, 1994–1995 average; postcrisis, 2004–2005 average.Sources of data:Trade policy cooperation: Asian Regional Integration Center. FTA Database. Available: http://aric.adb.org (accessed February 2008).Foreign direct investment: UNCTAD. FDI Statistics. Available: http://www.unctad.org (accessed February 2008).Equity markets: Asian Development Bank staff elaborations from Bloomberg data.Macroeconomic links: Oxford Economics 2008. Forecasting and Analysis. Available: http://www.oef.com/OE_FA_Int_Mac.asp (accessed February2008); and Bureau of Economic Analysis, United States, 2008. National Income Accounts. Available: http://www.bea.gov/national/index.htmIntraregional trade: International Monetary Fund various years. Direction of Trade Statistics. Available: http://www.imf.org (accessed February2008).Tourism: United Nations World Tourism Organization. Various years. Yearbook of Tourism Statistics. Available: http://www.un.wto.org/(accessed February 2008).Precrisis PostcrisisEmerging Asian Regionalism44Which areas of interdependence have been strengthened themost? Figure 2.7 shows all interactions deepening, but does notprovide a basis for comparing changes across indicators. To helpjudge how an indicator has changed over time and the extent towhich it differs across economies, it is useful to “normalize” theindicator, that is, to assess its changes relative to the benchmarkof typical economytoeconomy variations in the region. Thenormalized indicators (as defined and presented in Figure 2.8) showthe deviations of the indicators from their longterm, regionwideaverages, expressed in units of standard deviation. For example, HongKong, China conducted 66% of its trade with intraregional partners inthe postcrisis period compared with a longterm average of 46% forall Asian economies, with a standard deviation of 10%. Thus, HongKong, China’s normalized, postcrisis regional trade indicator is +2,because its measure of trade interdependence exceeded the regionalmean by two standard deviations. In most cases, the normalizedindicators show substantial increases between the pre andpostcrisis periods, suggesting broad, rising integration across theregion.Among the six indicators, equity comovements—thecorrelation of an economy’s equity returns with the region’s—showthe most significant increases between the pre and postcrisisperiods; increasing by a full standard deviation on average. Outputcomovements increased nearly as much. The indicators forintraregional trade and trade policy cooperation also rose, buttypically by only a half standard deviation. The intraregional FDI andtourist indicators increased least significantly, perhaps because theywere already high before the crisis. Importantly, all six indicatorsshow positive movements over time.How has regional integration differed across Asian economies?To make such general comparisons possible, the six normalizedintegration indicators were further combined into an “aggregateintegration index” (AII), defined and presented in Figure 2.9. The AII isbuilt from highly eclectic components, and so gives an impressionistic,rather than a theorybased, view of integration. Even so, it providesinsight into how each economy is linked to Integrating Asia and howits links have changed over time.13 Particularly high positive AII valuesare evident for the ASEAN economies and Hong Kong, China in thepostcrisis period. Broadly, their underlying measures of integration13 This is expected; the perception that integration was well under way became thebasis for selecting economies included in Integrating Asia.Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope450.10.30.50.70.91.11.3Tourism Foreign directinvestmentTrade policycooperationIntraregionaltradeMacroeconomiclinksEquitymarketsIndex (standard deviation)Figure 2.8. Rising relative indicators of integration by channelAverage change in relative indicators from pre to postcrisisNote: The figure shows the average pre to postcrisis change in Asia for “relative integrationindicators.” The relative indicators are derived from the original indicators defined in Figure2.7 using the transformation: x’ijt = (xijt – Ai)/si, where xijt is the value of indicator i in economyj at time t, Ai is the average of the ith indicator xijt over all j and t, and si is the standarddeviation of the ith indicator over all j and t. See Figure 2.7 for definition of indicators anddata sources.Source: Asian Development Bank staff elaboration of data in Figure 2.7.were roughly equal to longterm regional averages before the crisis,but were typically onehalf or more standard deviations above theseaverages after the crisis. The AII values are in some cases negative inthe precrisis period for the region’s largest economies (the PRC, theRepublic of Korea, and Japan), indicating that the regional ties of theseeconomies were not as strong as those of other Asian economies—presumably reflecting their relatively strong global connections.India has the lowest AII—understandably, since Integrating Asia sofar consists mainly of East Asian economies. But in every economy inthe region, including the large ones, the AII has increased over time.How markets drive integrationRegional integration in Asia is partly a result of the region’s rapidgrowth and increasing weight in the world economy. But, as we haveseen, regional relationships are also becoming more intense thangrowth by itself would explain. Asia is not alone in displaying such anincreasing regional bias; technology and policy seem to be generatingnew opportunities for regional integration, even in the context of arapidly globalizing world economy.The key technological explanation—the development ofproduction networks, often also described as “productionEmerging Asian Regionalism46Figure 2.9. Rising indicators of Asian integration by economyAverage aggregate integration index (AII), pre and postcrisisPRC=People’s Republic of China; HKG=Hong Kong, China; IND=India; INO=Indonesia; JPN=Japan; KOR=Republic of Korea; MAL=Malaysia;PHI=Philippines; SIN=Singapore; TAP=Taipei,China; THA=Thailand; VIE=Viet Nam.Notes: See Figure 2.7 for definition of indicators and data sources.The aggregate integration index (AII) is the average of the six integration indicators (see Figure 2.7) calculated for each Asian economy.Source: Asian Development Bank staff elaboration of data in Figure 2.7. Index (standard deviation)2.52.01.51.00.50.00.51.0IND JPN TAP PRC KOR INO THA MAL SIN VIE HKG PHIprecrisis postcrisisfragmentation”—is the result of advances in information technology,falling trade barriers, and declining transport costs. Thesedevelopments have made it possible to allocate various steps of amanufacturing production process to sites in different countries(Athukorala and Yamashita 2005, Ando 2006, ). Although these trendscould, and to some extent do, lead to a broad, global dispersionof production, in any one industry they appear to favor links withnearby countries more strongly than with those further away. Thisempirical finding is somewhat surprising. It appears that no matterhow good electronic coordination is, it needs to be supplementedwith personal interactions and networks, which are much less costlyto conduct among nearby sites than among farflung ones. And evenelectronicsbased coordination—such as transactions in financialmarkets and other services—is simpler within similar time zones,and among people who meet facetoface periodically.Such regional relationships tend to reinforce each other overtime. For example, dense regional economic connections increase thereturn on the transport and communications investments that supportthem. Investments in “soft” infrastructure—such as familiarity withAsian Regionalism: Context and Scope47business conditions, practices, and customs in foreign markets—alsobring higher returns in integrated regions. As investments accumulatein such supporting functions, doing business in a regional settingbecomes even more attractive. Although trade theory has little tosay about the pattern of regional relationships (beyond identifyingtransport costs as a determinant), they tend to be stable, suggestingthat they depend on significant fixed investments.Given its relatively recent emergence as a major trading power, thePRC’s relations with the rest of Asia are not yet as intensely developedas the region’s more established partnerships. Indeed, the PRC isstill strengthening its economic ties to other parts of the world, andthe intensity of its regional trade links is, for now, declining relativeto its international connections. Even so, as the hub of productionnetworks that involve components manufactured throughout EastAsia (Athukorala 2007b), the PRC has become a major force drivingregional integration. Its trade with the region now accounts for half oftrade within Asia, up from 29% in 1996.14 And, as noted, the PRC andIndia are also shaping regional integration by encouraging smallereconomies to combine their markets in order to achieve competitivescale.How policy makers are respondingAsia’s deepening connections are beginning to be reinforced bypolicy. Until recently, formal economic cooperation among Asiangovernments lagged behind marketdriven integration. This isconsistent with the region’s cautious policy making style, but it hasalso reflected Asian trade patterns; in the past, the region’s mostimportant economic partners have been outside Asia. As this ischanging, so are the region’s policy priorities.Asia’s earliest regional organizations emerged within the UnitedNations network—such as the United Nations Economic and SocialCommission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) and the Mekong RiverCommission—as well as in the security framework of the ColdWar, notably the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO). ADBwas established in 1967. More recently, the AsiaPacific EconomicCooperation (APEC) embraced economies within and outside theregion. The longeststanding wholly regional grouping is ASEAN,14 Based on IMF 2007b. If transactions among the People’s Repubic of China (PRC);Hong Kong, China; Macao, China; and Taipei,China are excluded from East Asiantrade because they resemble intraeconomy rather than intraregional transactions,this group of economies was involved in 39% of all intraEast Asian trade.Emerging Asian Regionalism48which has become a crucial element of the region’s emerging policyarchitecture.The structure of regional cooperation has since expanded to arich network of forums with overlapping memberships (discussedlater in Chapter 7, see Table A7.1). Some (for example, the Central AsiaRegional Economic Cooperation ) have focused on the specialrequirements of geographical subregions, such as infrastructure forfacilitating energy and transport flows. Some (for example, ASEAN)seek to transform their economies into a “single market” throughpolicies that affect many sectors of the economy. Some (for example,ASEAN+3 ) have addressed functional areas of integration, such asbond market development and reserve pooling. Others (for example,APEC) have been most effective in facilitating trade and investmentand reducing regulatory barriers among markets. In other words, theregion’s cooperative mechanisms are evolving on multiple tracks andare gradually developing unique comparative advantages.ASEAN countries have been at the forefront of Asian regionalism,individually and collectively. The ASEAN framework provides anadvanced model of international cooperation and a framework forexploring new integration strategies (Chapter 3 provides a fullerdiscussion). ASEAN has also been active in expanding the scopeof regional cooperation, initially through relations with dialoguepartners, beginning with Japan in 1973 and now including Australia,Canada, the PRC, the EU, India, Republic of Korea, New Zealand,Russian Federation, and the US. More recently, ASEAN invited thePRC, Japan, and the Republic of Korea to develop the ASEAN+3group, and, at its 1998 summit, set up the East Asian Vision Groupto make the case for “East Asia moving from a region of nations to abona fide regional community where collective efforts are made forpeace, prosperity, and progress” (East Asian Vision Group 2001). Anambitious agenda for cooperation is emerging from this process, asdiscussed in the following section.Alongside regional integration, Asia is witnessing a wave ofbilateral and smaller plurilateral cooperation initiatives. As ofDecember 2007, 44 such agreements had been signed involving one ormore economies in Integrating Asia (nearly all were signed since thecrisis); 90 more are under study or negotiation. The agreements varywidely in objectives, partners, and trade coverage—some are limitedin scope, others go well beyond WTO coverage in terms of sectorsand issues addressed. As Chapter 3 will discuss, the proliferationof these agreements could lead to an inconsistent “noodle bowl” ofAsian Regionalism: Context and Scope49narrow agreements or could establish—with regional leadership—thefoundations for substantially larger gains from a consolidated, regionwide free trade system.The political context is favorable. Since the crisis, governmentsthroughout the region have responded through broad commitmentsto work together, as well as through specific initiatives. Althoughdifferences in ambitions and viewpoints remain, Asia is mostly atpeace and cooperates on common security threats, while its historicaldivides are gradually being reconciled. Of course, Asia’s largereconomies remain cautious about regional integration and have largestakes in maintaining healthy relations with global markets. Theyhave emphasized that they are seeking an open regional communityand continue to develop economic and political relationships outsidethe region. For example, the Republic of Korea recently negotiated afree trade agreement with the US, and Japan has expressed interestin following suit. These varied interests will make it more challengingto achieve consensus, but will also increase the likelihood that Asianregionalism will make substantial contributions to both regional andglobal welfare.The positions of the PRC, India, Japan, and the Republic of Korea—the region’s largest economies—will be particularly important, as willASEAN’s. All are committed to an active role. Many observers weresurprised when the PRC accepted an invitation to join the 2001 ASEANmeetings, and by its rapid engagement in a process to establish a freetrade area with ASEAN (Ren 2007). The PRC’s premier, Wen Jiabao,stated:China’s future is inextricably linked to that of other EastAsian countries. Stability and prosperity in East Asia providean important guarantee for China’s development, and China’sdevelopment also offers opportunities to other East Asiancountries. … We will continue to implement the openingupstrategy based on mutual benefit, enhance economic andtechnical cooperation with other countries, and strive forcommon development in East Asia (Wen 2007).India has likewise indicated a strong desire to integrate with EastAsia. As part of its “Look East” policy, India has joined the East AsianSummit and has requested APEC membership. In the words of India’sPrime Minister Manmohan Singh (2004): envision an Asian Economic Community, whichencompasses ASEAN, China, Japan, Korea, and India. Sucha community would release enormous creative energiesEmerging Asian Regionalism50of our people. One cannot but be captivated by the visionof an integrated market, spanning the distance from theHimalayas to the Pacific Ocean, linked by efficient road, rail,air and shipping services. This community of nations wouldconstitute an “arc of advantage,” across which there would belargescale movement of people, capital, ideas, and creativity.Such a community would be roughly the size of the EuropeanUnion in terms of income, and bigger than NAFTA in terms oftrade. It would account for half the world’s population and itwould hold foreign exchange reserves exceeding those of theEU and NAFTA put together. This is an idea whose time is fastapproaching, and we must be prepared for it collectively.Yet Asian governments have been reluctant to undertakecommitments that may not last, or that restrict their autonomy.They also want to ensure that the institutions that develop in Asiacomplement their broad global objectives. The implications for thearchitecture of regional cooperation are explored in Chapter 7.2.3.	The emerging regional agendaAsia’s growing interdependence presents a compelling case for regionalcooperation—to deliver regional public goods, manage regionalexternalities, and help coordinate policies within the region, as wellas acting together to ensure an open global economic environment.A first effort to define such a regional agenda was undertaken by theEast Asian Study Group (EASG), established in 2001 by the ASEAN+3process. The EASG’s recommendations, summarized in Table 2.2,include institutional developments—one of which, the establishmentof the East Asian Summit (EAS), was implemented in 2004—as well asspecific proposals on trade, investment, and financial cooperation.15This study will assess the progress made on these issues as well asprospects for future cooperation. On the whole, the EASG’s proposalsprovide a timely, thoughtful road map for cooperation.The subsequent chapters of this report explore the progressand policy options in five areas of regional links: (1) production, (2)financial markets, (3) macroeconomics, (4) social and environmentalissues, and (5) cooperation. In the following pages, questions thatwill motivate this analysis are briefly examined.15 The East Asian Summit’s membership includes, in addition to ASEAN+3,Australia, India, and New Zealand.Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope51Shortterm measures• Form an East Asia Business Council.• Establish Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) status and preferential treatment for the least developedcountries.• Foster an attractive investment environment for increased foreign direct investment.• Establish an East Asian Investment Information Network.• Develop resources and infrastructure jointly for growth areas and expand financial resources for development with theactive participation of the private sector.• Provide assistance and cooperation in four priority areas: infrastructure, information technology, human resourcesdevelopment, and ASEAN regional economic integration.• Cooperate through technology transfers and joint technology development.• Develop information technology jointly to build telecommunications infrastructure and to provide greater access to theInternet.• Build a network of East Asian think tanks.• Establish an East Asia Forum.• Implement a comprehensive human resources development program for East Asia.• Establish poverty alleviation programs.• Take concerted steps to provide access to primary health care for the people.• Strengthen mechanisms for cooperation on nontraditional security issues.• Work together with cultural and educational institutions to promote a strong sense of identity and an East Asianconsciousness.• Promote networking and exchanges of experts in the conservation of the arts, artifacts, and cultural heritage of EastAsian countries.• Promote East Asian studies in the region.Medium and longterm measures, and those that require further studies• Form an East Asian Free Trade Area.• Promote investment by small and medium enterprises.• Establish an East Asia Investment Area by expanding the ASEAN Investment Area.• Establish a regional financing facility.• Pursue a more closely coordinated regional exchange rate mechanism.• Pursue the evolution of the ASEAN+3 Summit into an East Asian Summit.• Promote closer regional marine environmental cooperation for the entire region.• Build a framework for energy policies and strategies, and action plans.• Work closely with nongovernment organizations in policy consultation and coordination to encourage civic participationand statecivil society partnerships in tackling social problems.Table 2.2. Recommendations of the East Asia Study Group (2001)For the creation of an East Asian Economic CommunityASEAN = Association of Southeast Asian Nations.Source: Asian Development Bank.Emerging Asian Regionalism52ProductionAccess to markets, in the region and beyond, is critical to Asia andthus a high priority on the regional agenda. In lowincome economies,trade facilitates the movement of workers into highproductivityjobs; in middle and higher income countries, it provides incentivesfor innovation and productivity. Regional cooperation can strengthenAsia’s trade by creating vast regional markets, building a seamlessproduction base that makes the region even more competitive in theworld economy, and enhancing Asia’s role and bargaining position inglobal economic policy.Which initiatives could further integrate Asian production? Howcould regional integration reinforce Asia’s stake in global trade andinvestment flows? As we have noted, with multilateral liberalizationefforts at an impasse, Asian countries have concluded, or arenegotiating, numerous bilateral trade agreements. Policy makers needto address the challenge posed by these independent initiatives—andultimately shape what might otherwise become a tangled “noodlebowl” of agreements into a streamlined regional strategy. Chapter 3will explore how the region could develop markets free of restrictionson the crossborder flow of goods, services, and investment whilehelping to strengthen the global trading system.Financial marketsSince the crisis, Asian financial systems have improved dramatically.They have shaken off nonperforming loans and low capitalizationlevels, developed stronger supervision, and expanded equityand bond markets. Nevertheless, the financial systems of severalimportant Asian economies are still dominated by banks; theirregulatory systems remain patchy; and their international flows,to the extent that they are liberalized, are mainly intermediated byfinancial centers outside the region. Building safer, deeper, and moreintegrated financial markets remains a high priority for Asia.What role can the region play in strengthening and integrating Asianfinancial markets? Is there merit in deepening the Asian Bond MarketsInitiative and building regional payments and clearing systems?Should regional forums target the harmonization of regulations orthe adoption of standards that permit mutual recognition of financialinstitutions? These questions will be addressed in Chapter 4, in thecontext of building an integrated regional financial market.Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope53MacroeconomicsInterdependence generates spillover and enhances the need forcooperation (Kuroda and Kawai 2002). Some experts argue that Asia isin fact “decoupling” from the world economy. Whatever the eventualoutcome, for now, Asia clearly has a significant role in shaping globaleconomic activity and especially regional activity, and this role willincrease with the region’s growth and wealth. Policy makers need new,more sophisticated tools to monitor regional economic developmentsand set policies that will dampen economic fluctuations and exchangerate volatility.Which instruments are needed to manage interdependence—tomonitor economic performance and to coordinate policy? If crisesarise, will the region be prepared to fight them—for example, withthe tools of the Chiang Mai Initiative? Which alternatives to holdinglarge national foreign exchange reserves could it develop? Longstanding global imbalances pose additional challenges; indeed, thefalling US dollar and the unfolding credit crisis may be signaling thatthe resolution of the imbalances has begun. Could regional initiativeshelp to manage the adjustments required—for example, by easingAsia’s transition from exporting to markets outside the region toproducing more for regional consumption and investment? Chapter 5will examine policies designed to reduce the region’s vulnerability toregional as well as external shocks.Social and environmental issuesAs well as driving Asian dynamism, regional cooperation couldhelp ensure that its benefits are sustainable and widely shared.In countries where public finances are tight, governments seektargeted ways to reduce poverty, decrease income disparities, andaddress environmental concerns—and regional markets and policyexperience offer solutions. Asian economic growth is arguably themost powerful engine ever devised for social progress. In the PRCalone, 500 million people have escaped extreme poverty duringthe past 30 years. But the remaining challenges are daunting; theyinclude significant pockets of poverty, widening income disparitieswithin several economies, patchy social safety nets, rapidly ageingpopulations, and widespread environmental degradation.Which policies could connect poorer populations more directlyto the region’s dynamic growth processes? Could the region increaseflows of workers among countries—and improve social support forthem where they work—in order to distribute the fruits of regionalEmerging Asian Regionalism54progress more broadly? Should it develop mechanisms that providetechnical, financial, and political support for national environmentalpolicies? Should it attempt to mobilize regionwide political supportfor its best practice social policies? These questions are exploredin Chapter 6, in the context of developing a regional social andenvironmental agenda for shared prosperity.CooperationMarshaling collective efforts across Asia’s vast, diverse economiesis a huge challenge. The examples of the EU and, to a lesser extent,NAFTA offer insight, but Asia’s economics, politics, and history aredifferent—and call for new, distinctive solutions. Asian institutionaldevelopment will likely remain pragmatic and gradual, and the region’spolicy architecture will likely feature multitrack and multispeedsolutions. But as this architecture evolves, many questions will needto be addressed. What are the comparative advantages of differentcooperative forums? To what extent should they compete or beconsolidated? Which formal institutions will need to emerge to makethem effective? These questions will be explored in Chapter 7.The logic for Asian economic cooperation is powerful. Theregion is already highly integrated, and its governments are awareof their common interests and obligations. Increasingly, they areworking together. Asia has returned to stability and growth, andgoals that seemed daunting a few years ago—the elimination ofsystematic poverty and the absorption of large masses of people intoa prosperous middle class—are within reach. To be sure, importantproblems remain, and regional cooperation will require complexand delicate decisions. But Asia has begun the search for commonsolutions to its shared challenges. This report sets out why and how.Asian Regionalism: Context and Scope55Lessons from the crisisThe crisis offers valuable lessons on the vulnerabilities that can lead tocrises, approaches to manage them, and institutions and policies thatbecome necessary in their aftermath (for example, World Bank 1998).Sources of vulnerabilityThe crisis highlighted the risks of maintaining pegged exchangerates with open capital accounts. In the absence of very large foreignexchange reserves, even modest macroeconomic imbalances canbecome destabilizing. In some affected countries, these problemswere exacerbated by the inadequate supervision of deregulatedfinancial institutions, which led, among other outcomes, to a severe“double mismatch” problem of funding longterm domestic projectswith shortterm foreign currency loans.Policy responsesManaging an international crisis requires timely, wellstructuredsupport from the international community. In retrospect, earlyefforts to contain the crisis may have involved excessivelydeflationary macroeconomic policies and rushed efforts toaddress longterm structural problems through measures (suchas bank closures) that contributed to the loss of confidence.Crisis resolution mechanismsEconomies confronted with a crisis need strong mechanisms to speedresolution and minimize impact. An essential “economic securityframework” needs to provide safety nets for individuals as well asmechanisms to help corporations survive temporary financial stress,such as institutions to protect viable firms from losing access tocredit, resolve impaired loans, and recapitalize banks.These lessons suggest a range of recommendations for policiesat the national, regional, and global levels (Table B2.1).Chapter 2: appendixEmerging Asian Regionalism56IMF = International Monetary Fund.Source: Based on Kawai 2007b.Table A2.1. Policy recommendations derived from the Asian financial crisisNational measures Regional measures Global measuresPreventing or reducing the risk of crisesAdopt sound macroeconomic managementPursue noninflationary monetary policyPursue sound fiscal policyLimit public debtLimit current account deficitsMaintain data transparencyStrengthen regional policy dialogueMaintain early warning systemStrengthen IMF surveillance and policyadviceStrengthen privatesector monitoring(rating agencies)Adopt sustainable exchange rate regimeAdopt viable exchange rate regimeEnsure consistency between exchange rate regime andmacroeconomic policyStrengthen regional exchange ratecoordinationManage risk in the national balance sheetMaintain adequate foreign exchange reservesMonitor shortterm capital flowsLiberalize capital account cautiouslyMonitor shortterm capital flows andremove regulatory biases that favorshortterm external lendingMonitor shortterm capital flows andremove regulatory biases that favorshortterm external lendingManage risk in the financial and corporate sectorsStrengthen financial regulation and supervisionImprove disclosure and information transparencyStrengthen governance in financial and corporate sectorsDevelop capital marketsHelp develop regional capital marketsSupport international standards andcodes in regulation and supervisionSupport best practice governanceStrengthen financial sector monitoringImplement international standards andcodesSupport best practice governanceManaging crises effectivelyMobilize timely and adequate external liquidityAdopt consistent policy packagesMinimize moral hazardEstablish regional liquidity support Expand and accelerate IMF liquiditysupportTailor macroeconomic and structural policies to crisis specificsTailor monetary and fiscal policies to specifics of thecrisis and the economyStrengthen regional capacity to adviseon adjustmentStreamline IMF conditionality onmacroeconomic and structural policiesBailin private international investorsImpose official standstillsIf necessary, impose private sector involvementEstablish international rules for privatesector involvementEstablish international rules for privatesector involvementResolving the systemic consequences of crisesResolve impaired bank assets and corporate liabilitiesEstablish procedures for bank exits and recapitalizationEstablish procedures for corporate workoutsInclude insolvency clauses in debt issuesHelp finance bank and corporaterestructuringEstablish international procedures for theresolution of non governmental debtHelp finance bank and corporaterestructuringSupport vulnerable groups through social sector policiesStrengthen safety nets and support hardhit populations Provide support to finance social sectorprogramsProvide support to finance social sectorprogramsLesson 9 Asian Regionalism  Regionalism defined Regionalism is a functional relation that bundles multiple nations with political, economic and cultural inheritance, often based on the geographical advantage. It is a political ideology that favors a specific region over a greater area. Regionalism emphasizes on developing the administrative power and swaying the available or some inhabitants of a region. It usually results due to political separations, religious geography, cultural boundaries, linguistic regions, and managerial decisions.  Asian Regionalism  Asian regionalism focuses on the relationship between ideas and politics and examines rapid growth of Asia’s economy, financial stability and regional economic integration. Asia’s development has had a massive, positive impact on people’s lives. Most Asian economies have made remarkable progress in reducing poverty. Regional integration fosters inclusive development. Governments need to connect the poor to the thriving regional economy by eliminating labor market barriers, investing in workers’ capabilities, and building infrastructure to connect disadvantaged regions with economic centers. Three (3) Factors Leading to greater integration The three (3) factors leading to greater integration of the Asian region are as follows: 1. Trade. In ancient times, regions of Asia had commercial relations among themselves as well as with parts of Europe and Africa. Nomadic peoples traded over considerable distances using “barter” as the medium of exchange. Ancient people were so honest and truthful, as no businessman was aggrieved and defrauded. 2. Similar Culture. The culture of Asia is diverse but they do share many things. This makes it an easier fit during times of negotiations. 3. Common Goals. The Asian region recognize the mutual benefits of a slow integration. Significance of Regionalism The following are considered as significant ingredients of regionalism: 1. Common sense of identity. 2. Combines creation and implementation of institution. 3. Shape a collective action within a geographical region. ASEAN the Association of South East Asian Nations www.thejakartapost.com/academia/2017/02/03/theunitedstatesnonstoppivottoasia.html The Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) is a regional grouping founded to promote accelerated economic growth, facilitate social progress and cultural development, pursue regional peace in the Southeast Asian region through multilateral cooperation. ASEAN was founded on August 8, 1968. Its original members are Indonesia, Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, and Singapore. Curently it has ten (10) members which included: Vietnam, Myanmar, Brunei Darrusalam, Laos, and Timor Leste. Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) has been formed which included mutual agreement with the United States, China, Japan, and South Korea.  APEC Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) was institutionalized with the goal of monitoring and analyzing regional markers and institutes as well as governing rules and norms for facilitating transparent and effective business transactions. It operates on the basis of nonbinding commitments, open dialogue and equal respect for views of all participating economies. APEC was founded in 1989 consisting of 21 memberstates. It is established to eliminate trade and investment barriers in Asia Pacific region. Its secretariat was based in Singapore and operates as the core support mechanism for the APEC. Thirty (30%) percent of the world population is covered by APEC economies. It remains as a regional economic forum to leverage the growing interdependence of Asia Pacific. hello my dear studentshow are you doing today it is good tohave you for today's discussionas we begin to explore another lessonwith your subject the contemporary worldfor our topic today we are to talk aboutasian regionalism after watching thisvideoyou should be able to defineasian regionalism differentiateregionalization from globalizationand analyze how different asian statesconfront the challenges ofregionalizationand globalization as we beginlet us define and understand thefollowing kit termsthat are associated with asianregionalismnumber one regionalizationregionalization is the process ofdividing anarea into smaller segments calledregionsas we all know the world is dividedinto not just continents but alsoregions number two regionsregions are groups of countries locatedin the same geographical areafor example japan chinaindonesia and the philippines arelocated within the geographicalarea of asia which is a regionaside from being the largest and mostdiverse continentin the world among asiathe other eight official recognizedregions of the worldare africa the caribbeancentral america europenorth america oceaniaand the south america number threeregionalism regionalism is defined as apolitical ideologythat favors a specific region over agreaterarea meaning to sayit mostly focuses on regions since theyaresmaller compared to larger areasbecause of this regionalism usuallyresolves topolitical separations religiousgeographycultural boundaries linguistic regionsand managerial divisionsbut why do countries form regionalorganizationthey form regional organization as a wayof coping with the challengesof globalization but what isglobalizationglobalization is a process by whichpeople are unifiedinto a single society and functiontogetherit is the process by which businessesor other organizations developinternationalinfluence or start operatingon an international scalewhat are the differences ofregionalizationand globalization in natureglobalization promoted integration ofeconomiesacross state borders all around theworldwhile regionalization divides anarea into smaller regionsin market globalization allowsmany corporations to trade oninternational levelit also allows free marketwhat is a free marketa free market is an unregulated systemof economic exchange that requires notariffs or just minimalwe all know that a tariff is atax imposed by one country on the goodsand servicesimported from another countryin regionalization monopolies are morelikely to developmonopoly means one producer controlssupply of goods or services and wherethe entry of new producersis prevented or highly restrictedin cultural and societal relationsglobalization acceleratesmulticulturalismthrough free and inexpensive movement ofpeople while regionalization doesnot support multiculturalismmulticulturalism is the view thatculturesraces and ethnicities particularly thoseof minority groupsdeserve a special acknowledgement oftheir differenceswithin a dominant political cultureit is a situation in which all thedifferentcultural or racial groups in societyhave equal rights and opportunities andnone is ignored or regarded asunimportantin aid globalized internationalcommunitiesare more willing to aid countries isstricken by disasterswhile in regionalization an area doesnot get involvedin the affairs of other areasin technological advances globalizationhas driven great advancesin technology in regionalizationadvanced technology is rarely availablein one country or regionjust earlier i have asked you whycountries form regional associationsthese countries form regionalassociationsor organizations because ofnumber one military defensethe north atlantic treaty organizationornato was formed to protect europefrom the threat of the soviet unionand as a response the soviet unioncreatedthe warsaw pact the warsaw pactformerly known as the treaty offriendshipcooperation and mutual assistance whichwasestablished as a balance of poweror counterweight to nato or the northatlantictreaty organizationnumber two countries form regionalassociations because of economic crisisthe association of southeast asiannationsalong with china japan and south koreaestablished an emergency fund thatstabilized asian economiesafter the rippling effect of the thaieconomy's collapsenumber three because of resourcescountries form regional associationsbecauseof resources countries need to pulltheir resources together to makethemselves more powerfulthe organization of the petroleumexporting countriesrose in power when they took overdomestic productionand controlled crude oil prices acrossthe globeso those are the reasons why countriesform regional organizationsbecause of military defense economiccrisisand resources it is their wayto cope up with the challenges ofglobalizationas a conclusion asian regionalismis the product of economic interactionand not political planningdid you enjoy our lesson todaywell i have enjoyed it too howeverif you have any comments suggestions orclarifications feel free to write themin the comments down belowthis has been mrs gloria p balinbiyour teacher for todayWORLD OF IDEASDo you prefer McDonald's over your traditional, local cuisine? That may well be the consequence of cultural globalisation. American fastfood restaurants, fashion brands and media outlets have conquered the world due to technological advances. Now, you may listen to world news from anywhere and at any time. This is the result of the emergence of global media.We will go over the influence of global media on society and explore some of the key characteristics and consequences of cultural globalisation.Then, we will explore the two main sociological perspectives on media globalisation.Definition of media globalisation in sociologyFirst, let's explain what we mean by global media or media globalisation.Media globalisation is the universal integration of media through the multicultural exchange of ideas.While the term media refers to all sorts of print, electronic and digital means of communication, global media includes all forms of mass communication that reach every corner across the globe  television, newspapers, radio, and social media (Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, etc.).Influence of global media on culture and societyTo answer how globalisation has influenced media, we first need to understand what cultural globalisation and its importance are.Cultural globalisation refers to the transformation and exchange of values, ideas, attitudes, and cultural products across the globe.Sociologists argue that cultural globalisation affected many areas of life, media being only one of them.Let's go over some of the key aspects of cultural globalisation: migration, food, sports and entertainment.Migration and global mediaMigration refers to the process of people moving from one place to another with the intention of living there.It is a process that has been happening for several decades. Initially, people and their cultures were transported across borders by military conflicts, missionary services, and trade. With technological advancements  transportation and communication, for example  the process of cultural globalisation has drastically intensified. People now travel to new places for economic opportunities or to start a new life.Food and global cultureThe spread of different cultural cuisines throughout society is another obvious example of cultural globalisation. We can now find food and drink from all over the world in diverse, multiethnic cities without ever stepping into those countries.However, this also means that fastfood giants have become increasingly popular and have reduced the prevalence of local foods and eating habits.Ritzer points out that McDonald's has become one of the largest food chains in about 119 countries.Sports and global mediaCultural globalisation has also led to the establishment of major international sporting events such as the World Cup and the Olympics. These events unite people together in a shared, global leisure experience.Entertainment and global mediaTelevision companies also market their shows, such as Big Brother and Who Wants To Be A Millionaire, to worldwide audiences. They are hosted and telecasted across international borders. More recently, online streaming services such as Netflix have made watching shows and films from all over the world accessible in almost every country.Global media consumptionWe will discuss how consumption patterns and the importance of audience consciousness have changed in the age of global media.Consumption patternsIn contemporary society, one can have shared experiences in terms of consumption patterns in nearly every major city in the world, regardless of individual cultures. This means that aspects of lifestyle  fashion, mall culture, leisure parks, car ownership, tourism, etc.  can be similar in cities that are very far apart geographically, e.g. in the U.S. and Asia.Global consciousnessAudiences everywhere are now closely connected to what is going on worldwide through news media, as significant events are displayed in realtime.In Anthony Giddens’ opinion, this helps develop a ‘global outlook’, and people can identify with and relate to global audiences. He describes the process of creating a global identity as cosmopolitanism.Think about TV news reporting of natural disasters in developing countries and how this influences people from developed countries to donate money to charity.The Importance of global media: ConsequencesSome of the major consequences of the globalisation of culture and the emergence of global media have been detraditionalisation and risk consciousness.DetraditionalisationGiddens suggests that detraditionalisation has its importance when it comes to the consequence of globalisation. This refers to the phenomenon of people actively questioning their traditional values  religious beliefs, marriage, gender roles, etc.The fact that people doubt their traditional beliefs and ideas reflects the thought that cultures have or are becoming less stable, losing their predictability and untouchability as it was before globalisation. People in modern society are familiar with alternative ways of living, thinking, and doing things differently.Risk consciousnessUlrich Beck (1992) points out the importance of global risk consciousness due to shared experiences. Global problems like terrorism, national conflicts, nuclear wars, global warming, etc., threaten populations living in different countries worldwide.A recent example is COVID19, a global pandemic.The consistent (often biased) media focus on such global issues has often caused widespread fear and apprehension around the globe. This has likely contributed to phenomena such as Brexit, which was somewhat based on anxieties about immigration.However, from a positive perspective, increasing global movements and agencies have bound people together across borders to tackle pressing social issues.Examples of global media culture: Theoretical perspectivesThere are two primary theoretical perspectives on global media and culture: cultural imperialism and postmodernism.Media in developing countriesLet us start by discussing what cultural imperialism means.Cultural imperialismThe cultural imperialist perspective aligns with the neoMarxist view and focuses on the negative effects of media globalisation.According to cultural imperialists, globalisation through media is a process where American culture and values are imposed on other parts of the world. This is also known as Americanisation.For example, the spread of Hollywood films, shows, sports, and advertisements.Global Media, Photograph of hollywood sign on hill, StudySmarterFig. 2  The popularity of Hollywood movies all over the world is a sign of Americanisation.Cultural imperialists argue that the widespread nature of American culture might weaken local cultures and traditions in other countries. For instance, many people choose American fast foods, such as hot dogs and burgers, over their national/cultural dishes.Another aspect that cultural imperialists consider is the negative political consequences of globalisation. People's lives are now saved as digital data, and with increasing data surveillance and tracking, political powers can use this data for corrupt purposes all over the world.Global media: postmodernismThe postmodernist perspective considers media the central point of globalisation and focuses on the positive influences of media globalisation on society.The globalisation of media has provided individuals with the opportunity to learn about diverse cultures across the world. This has helped them to reach beyond what is local and conventional and adapt to new cultures.For example, access to more choices of clothes, accessories, films, TV shows, music, travel opportunities, etc.Media saturation has resulted in rejecting ‘metanarratives’  the idea that there’s only one truth. People have become sceptical about ‘truth claims’, and less susceptible to manipulation by those in power.Media globalisation has also inspired a participatory culture. The audience gets involved by creating their own content, and also by sharing and critiquing the content created by others on social media.Spencer Thomas (2008) conducted a survey to analyse the difference in media coverage of protests held against military violence in Burma. His study concluded that very little media coverage was received in 1998 compared to that in 2007, with the advent of smartphones. The later protests received global media attention.According to Thompson, global media products are influenced by the local and cultural products in different countries, giving rise to new forms of fusion. This process is known as cultural hybridity. A suitable example would be Bollywood, which incorporates both traditional Indian and (American) Hollywood influences.Marxists, however, argue that globalisation restricts choice since the owners of transnational media companies exercise too much power. Additionally, Marxists are concerned with local media culture getting replaced by global culture.Critiques of postmodernismPostmodernists have been criticised for exaggerating the influence of global media, as people across many cultures still consider their nationality, ethnicity, traditions, and beliefs to play a significant role in their lives and identities. Cohen and Kennedy (2000) believe that people don’t easily give up their cultures just because they get familiar with elements of global culture.Media is not the only determining factor in most people’s lifestyle choices. This is because many people are unable to make consumption choices due to the inequalities brought about by poverty, racial discrimination, patriarchy, etc. For instance, access to the internet is still not available to many because they cannot afford it.Global Media  Key takeawaysMedia globalisation is the universal integration of media through the multicultural exchange of ideas. Global media includes all forms of mass communication that reach every corner across the globe.The key aspects of cultural globalisation are migration, food, sports and entertainment.Some of the major consequences of the globalisation of culture have been detraditionalisation and risk consciousness.According to cultural imperialists, globalisation through media is a process where American culture and values are imposed on other parts of the world. This is also known as Americanisation.The postmodernist perspective considers media the central point of globalisation and focuses on the positive influences of media globalisation on society. Postmodernists have been criticised for exaggerating the influence of global media on people's lifestyles.hi welcome back to my channel this isJoe Brown so welcome to my channel thisis called that's the free mind becauseI'll be sharing all my inputs all myknowledge about thethe different subjects hopefully tothose who are currently enrolled for thesemester so hopefully my videos would beable to help you to learn a lot and evenif this is just a very short video but Ireally hope that I I was able to helpyou okay so for today's Vlog is I'll beexplaining to you our lesson number fivein the subject of contemporary worldsour topic for today let's talk aboutglobal media culture so what is globalsowhen you talk about global mediacultures we are we are possessing a lotof culture and when you talk aboutculture culture is a way of life itrefers to our own human's way of lifehow we present ourselves our belief ourTraditions what are the choices we makeand howOkay somedia culture the main reason why thereis a media culture because of mass mediaand media culture emerges because thereis an intersection between media andcultureso one of the reasons why there is anincreased influence of globalization itis because the flow of culture becausewe have a lot of differences when youtalk about culture we have our ownbelief our own Traditions our owndifferences when you talk about cultureand culture can be referred tothese two types of culture we have ourmaterial culture and the nonmaterialculture because just a few months we arewe are so different in talking aboutculture and there are things that webelieve in that others don't believe onwhat we are saying so that's why cultureis very important you try to understandthe differences of humans so how wepresent ourselves as possibly influencedby our own culture so when you talkabout material culture this refers to usthe tangible object of humans meaninga culture we have that culture becausewe are able to touch it but when youtalk about the intangible culture wealso have that culture but it isreferred to as nonmaterial culturebecause we can attach it you can onlyfeel it or sense it but we are doing itokay sothose are the the differences betweenthe material culture and thenonmaterial culture that's why thereare a lot of people right why they arepresenting themselves like that becauseit is part of their own cultureand we are not doing that thing becauseit is not part of our culture so againwe have our material culture and thenonmaterial culture take note cultureis also articulated in symbols orillustrations so meaningour own culture can also be representedby symbols or illustrations by the waywe speak by our language by our valuesand with our practices to meaning we cansee the differences of our culture basedon based on symbols illustrations basedon our languagevalues our practices so that's why we wewe have a lot of differences when youtalk about culture because we arepracticing different valuessymbols illustrations and a lot ofthings okay so take note that we appealwe humans we are carriers of culture soyou talk about carriers meaning ourculture is passed by us by a from onegeneration to the Next Generation fromfrom our forefathers from our ancestorsthat is part of our culture I am likethis the way I speak because of myculture possibly okay soI am bisaya so the way I speak inTagalog I really find it hard to speakin Tagalog okay so maybeum my culture also influences how Ispeakokay so we are the carriers of cultureokay we learn culture where did we learnculture from our homes and ourcommunities okay since we areinteracting since we are a socializingagent we love to socialize so possiblywe adapt we adapt everything we adopt welearned the we learn a lot of culturefrom our from our participation okay sowhen we go out when we interact withother people so we experience a lot ofcultural exchange and I think that'snormal I love I love to go out I love toblend in with other people and possiblymore or less I can also absorb their ownculture or try to adopt or to accept itand to become part of their own culturewe that we humans are carriers ofculturefor me yes I am a carrier of culturemeaning I am like this because I ampossiblyabsorbing the culture that I learnedfrom my family from my friends from myhomes from my communities so I am likethis because I am influenced by themokay so because we are the carriers ofculture we love to socialize we love toblend in with other people we love tohang out with them and possibly that isthe reason why we are like thisespecially when we go out when weinteract with other people we experiencea lot of exchanges like culturalExchangeandafter that exchanges after that culturalexchange sometimesthere are some values or practices thatwe also adapt it to ourselves we arealso practicing practicing it ourselvesand that is acculturation trying toadapt everything you are like thisbefore but because of the culturalexchanges you are doingtheir own culture to yourselfthat is the acculturationokay so but when you tend to adaptcertain values or practices when you arejust in public you are doingaccommodation meaning you are notabsorbing everything you are justfollowing depending on the environmentif it is for you if it is reallyimportant toto to do it or to practice that valuesand believe so you also try to toaccommodate it that is calledaccommodationokayso so there are also times when we tendto resemble the people in the othergroup meaning when we try to resemblethe people in other groups it is calledassimilationmeaningthe first thing it will happen becauseof the cultural exchanges we learn a lotof things from from others from otherculture and because we learned somethingfrom them from their own culture we tryto adapt it to ourselves that isacculturation and when you try to adaptcertain aspects of their own values andpractices that is referred to asaccommodation it really depends on theenvironment that you are in if it isreally needed to adapt it or not that isaccommodation you are just accommodatingtheir own values and practicesokay so when we try to resemble thepeople in the other group so when we tryto put ourselves in the other group youare now considered practicing the ideaof assimilation so the same will happento us when we come to interact withother people that's why when you goabroad when you make uh sometimes youwill be surprised that you are alsopracticing their own culture even thoughyou are not used to that culture sothat's that's the process of that's theprocess ofof trying to adaptof trying to adapt the the differencethe different values that you learn fromother people because then again wehumans are carriers of cultures whereveryou go whatever you are doingthen again we are carriers of cultureso let's talk about globalization andcultureso I know that you are all familiar withthis globalizationso we are influenced by a lot of thingsthere are a lot of changes a lot ofthings that is happening and that is theinfluence of globalization I am likethis I am doing this because of theinfluence of globalization I have to doitI have to I have to change myself from afrom a a very shy teach uh teacher youknow from this one so I have to do itbecause for me the culture now uhstudents learn a lot of things in socialmedia and they are so eager to watch youon YouTube so this is the influence aperfect example of globalizationwe are we are exploring the differentspaces we are exploring the differentHorizon the different spaces so tryingto trying to engage with other peopleso trying to to to be with them or tointeract with them so take note thatglobalization facilitate sharing ofideas and for me that is truebecause I I also learn a lot in onYouTube I love watching YouTube I I'vegot I've gained a lot of learningsthrough YouTube even though they don'tknow me I also don't know them I justwatched them on YouTube but there issharing of ideas there's attitudesvalues okayso despite the the distance we were ableto share our ideas and that is a goodthing of globalization we are sharingour culture our ideas and values and ourways of life through globalization andwe're also able to share it too toanother people with with our differencesin culture globalization trying toconnect us everywhereand cultural flowsit is a term used to refer to itsDynamic of culture in the age ofglobalization so there is cultural flowswhen you talk about cultural flowsmeaning wherever you go there is there'sa dynamic of culture in the age ofglobalization sometimes it's easy for usto understand one another because we areso immersed with the differences of ourculture and for me that is a good thingbecause even though I am just here inlate Teno but because of theglobalization I was able to grasp alittle bit of their own culture eveneven if there's a huge distance from meto another cultureOkay soGlobal cultural flows can be viewed indifferent ways so when you talk aboutglobal cultural flow since we are sodiversesoculture are inherently and stronglyunique from one another I have my ownculture you also have your own cultureso it is it makes me unique and it makesyou unique and that is culture it isinherently and strongly unique from oneanotherand sometimes we we also have thatdifferences in cultureand for me that is normal that is normalto experience cultural differentialismmeaning we are expressing our owndifferences in cultureand if we get to learn their own cultureand because of our openmindedness weare able to grasp their own culture andtrying to to adapt or to apply it toourselves for the betterment of our owncultureOkay sothis view suggests that there arebarriers which Shield cultures frombeing penetrated by external inputs okaysometimes there are people who areinfluenced by the by by other cultureand trying to change their own culturefrom from that new learned culture butthere are also people who are not likethat they they were able to learnsomething from from others culture butthey will still retain their own culturefor me as a Filipino I will also I willalways retain my my Filipino culturebecause then again I love my culture andI am very proud of my own cultureokay so another view when you talk aboutthe global flows is although there is awidespread of globalization and wecannot deny the fact that it it gives usa lot of positive inputs yes but uhsometimes because of the global flows issometimes there is or already that termcalled cultural hybridization so what iscultural hybridization meaningmeaning there is now in there is now astrong emerge when you talk about ourGlobal and local culture meaning we areinfluenced by our Global culture andtrying to adapt it our local culturebecause of our interaction with anotherpeople okay that's why our culture nowit's called as hybridization because ofthe emergence of the combinations ofglobal and local cultures so we havethis one this Global flowsare the following so we have so we willexplain that to you the three Globalflows of our of of global and localculture number one is the ethnoscapeswhen you talk about ethnoscapes this isthe movement of people why there isa combination of global and localculture because people are keep onmoving people I keep on sharing people Ikeep on migrating to another countrythat's why this is called the culturalhybridizationmeaning because of the movement ofpeople we are now experiencing culturalhybridization the second Global flows isthe thickness capes so when you talkabout techno Scapes it is there is afluid an interlinked global technologymeaning there is now the increase ofvery fluid so our learning is very fluidit is it is spread out right so there isa strong link with regards to globaltechnology so there are a lot ofinventions and we as Filipino we're alsotrying to adapt that inventions to usthere are a lot of things happening nowespecially in specially in in in in ourlives now and how we present ourselvespeople are moving and people are tryingto connect with one another despite thedifferences in culturenumber three is the finance capes sobecause of the movement of amount ofmoney across Nation to States becausethere is movement of money thatright so people are constantly movingpeople are trying to adapt and trying towork abroad and there is a huge amountof money across Nation to Statesokay that is the financecapes that's whythere is there is now a strong linkbetween us and globalization the financeCape we keep on moving we keep onsharing and we keep on blending withwith one another the fourth is the mediaEscape media escapes meaning there is afast production and transfer ofinformation so now it is very easy to tolearn a lot of things on social mediaand it is very easy to do researchbecause you can you can easily getsomething out of a very short video clipyou will able to get to know theirknowledge their skills their how they doa lot of things and that is theinfluence of media escapes the fastproduction and transfer of informationand the last one is theidea escapes so there is a movement ofpolitical imagethere is a movement of political imagesmeaning there are a lot of movement whenyou talk about your own ideas your ownpolitical images that's why people areimproving people are moving and we aremoving everywhere we are moving for thebetterment of our cultureso instead of clashing and conflictingno so when you talk about culture thereis I think it is normal that weexperience a lot of clashing andconflictingand lastly because of culture because ofglobalizationum now we are experiencing culturalconvergence so when you talk aboutcultural convergences because of theinfluence of globalization our culturethe influence of mass media to how wepresent ourselves sometimes we alsobecome one we are because and I thinkpossibly that is the reason why we areexperiencing a lot of changes withinourselves trying to adapt a lot ofthings because of that culturalconvergenceso this is linked with the concept ofcultural assimilation right when you tryto assimilate when you try when you tryto absorb uhothers culture to be transmitted to uspossibly we're also practicing thatourselves and that is the main reasonwhere we are why we are influenced byothers when you talk about cultureokay so the process of culturalconvergence meaning when we are tryingto be homogeneous when you're trying toto become one with with with the withculture when you try to become one withculture we are not practicing culturalimperialismso meaning we are imposing we areimposing others culture to ourselveswe are we are trying to to be one withthem we are trying to absorb them we aretrying to to blend in with them and Ithink it is very rampant for today'sgeneration it's easy for us to adapt tothe with the different set of our ownculture some may not adapt but some mayalso adapt depending on how they see thethe culture that we are in that reallydepends on the on the person handlingtheir their own culture if they willadapt it or notokay so how about the media cultureso when you talk about media culturemedia is a means of conveying somethingand I know when you talk about cultureno uh social media is is verysocial media is very uh trending socialmedia is uh for today's generation weare putting on investing so much effortwhen you talk about social media peopleare doinglagging sharing their own idea sharingtheir thoughts and for me it is theinfluence of media culture even at homeI I am not used to to speaking like thisbut because of theit all started withlast two years when the pandemic hit ourcountry and I tried to change my ownculture to for me to be able to share mythoughts to the students without doingface to face so I think this is the onlyway for me to to try to absorb somethingfrom from that culturesoI am not practicing everything but itenjoy but when I am just in public sopossibly I am also doing something likethat okay so media is a means ofconveying something and I really lovedoing this this this kind of thing nobecause I was able to reach a lot ofstudents to reach a lot of people eventhough not not really my students butthey were able to I was able to helpthem possibly probably so I was able toconvey something for them so I am justso happy that I am using the culture ofanother sculpture to to be put intomyself to be confident in speaking infrontthrough this through this video so mediais a means of conveying something aChannel of communication so there is anintersection between globalization andmediain what way there is a intersectionnumber one isthere is oral communication like thisthis is this is a perfect example of theinfluence of globalization and media Iam communicating with youthere is a video but I am stillcommunicating with you through medianumber two is script we can alsocommunicate with others by writing theprinting press Electronic media digitalmedia so today's generation we are sowe are so into digital media and we areso expressivewith regards to our thoughts withregards to how we see things we are soexpressive with our emotions throughdigital mediaokay there's a good thing and sometimesbecause of our extreme extremeexpression and social media sometimes uhthere is Clashing of ideas there isconflicting of ideas because then againwe are living with a different cultureso instead of clashing and conflictingideas why not try to to absorb that inin a try to absorb that in a morepositive way and trying to to be betterin in transforming ourselves despite thedifferences of our cultureOkay sothe digital media has become aphenomenon yesright so the digital media has become aphenomenon I am not I am not a techieperson I really need the help of myhusband in doing something like this myhusband is auh he knows a lot of technicalities I'mnot like that so I am just lucky I havethat partner in my life okay so with theprevalent use of social networkplatforms like Instagram TwitterSnapchat YouTube among otherswe are so diverse nowwe are connecting with so many peoplewe arewe are doing uh intersection between usand other peopleand we are trying to share our ownthoughts our ideas our knowledge toanother peopleso that's whyselfexpression the way you expressyourselves is possibly transmitted to usthrough media culture so let's try to befamiliar to be careful in doingselfexpression right it's good thatyou're able to express that but let'salwaysI could see the the culture of anotherperson while doing our ownselfexpressionokay so media and the Filipinasso what happened to us when you talkabout mediaagain Filipinos are known to bethey are consumers of various forms ofmediaand it was it was it was revealed thatFilipinos are the world's top user ofsocial media yesin a 2019 study it was revealed thatFilipinos are the world stop user ofsocial media and for me that is that isveryand that is very true we are spending alot of time watching YouTube spendingplaying online games and Filipinos loveto watch movies yesright so we are so attached with ourdigital media today's generation theyare so good in dealing with social mediadigital mediaOkay somedia is influential in many aspects youcan learn a lot of things through medialike social mediaokay so there are a lot of issues whenyou talk about media cultureand I know that you are all aware withthat so I don't have to explain that toyou one by one uh the main idea here isbecause of the globalization we wecannotI think there is fluidity when you talkabout globalization there's a widespreadof information too much of informationthe main issue here is trying to filtera lot of information to yourself andtrying to adapt what is what isimportant to you and not to adapt whatis not for use not so important so thereare a lot of issues in media culturesbecause then again people are doingselfexpression so when you doselfexpression we are just expressingour subjectivity we are just tellingwhat we areuh we're just telling what with whatwhat we think is right for us we aresometimes we are so carried away withour own culture with our own emotionsfor the sake of selfexpression okay sothank you so much for watching all myvideos I really do hope that you arelearning from all the videos that Iposted and thank you so much so this isour lesson number five in the subject ofcontemporary worldGLOBALIZATION OF RELIGIONThe Information Age and the Globalization of ReligionINOUE Nobutaka1. Impact of the "Information Age"The socalled "information age" is gradually spreading its influence to the realm of religion, namely, in the methods religions use for teaching, proselytizing, and in belief systems. Particularly noteworthy developments include the fact that it is now possible for any religion to spread beyond national borders, allowing even small new religious movements to engage in overseas proselytization activities, and leading to new, hitherto unseen religious developments. This rapid acceleration of the "information age" is now producing a phenomenon which can be called the "globalization of religion."Although it is impossible to estimate how this process will develop in the future, it is likely that religious information will increasingly circulate in ways different from those formerly known, new types of religious organization will be formed, and the contents of their activities and teachings will experience a more turbulent rate of change than before. In this sense, religion overall is facing a great turning point.To discuss these issues, however, I would like to begin by describing my perspective on the meaning of information age. While this expression is often heard, its contents frequently differ depending on the user. In particular, different individuals and differing areas of special interest often reflect differing concepts of when the information age properly began, and what it signifies. And if the question is extended to the essential nature of "information," we become embroiled in even thornier difficulties.In any event, it cannot be denied that our "information environment" has changed drastically over the past twenty years. We can begin our discussion by keeping in mind the main characteristics of this change. By "information environment," I here mean first, the method of information propagation, namely the socalled "hardware" and its technology; second, the geographical and social reach or expanse of the information propagation, and third, the quantity and content of information being propagated. In regard to these three points, the "information age" clearly signals great qualitative differences from preceding periods. And since this development is undergoing constant and rapid evolution, it is impossible to predict what kinds of influence will impact our society hereafter. It is impossible to deny, however, that the appearance of new styles of communication stemming from the development of new technologies and media are having a decisive effect on current social change. Massive amounts of information can now be transmitted instantly, accurately, in multiple formats to multiple destinations, and this technological progress is even now changing our own social systems. And the influence of this development inevitably extends to religious phenomena as well.The decisive change in our means of communication was signaled by the invention and popular dissemination of the computer, with the result that one could claim that the most apt keyword expressing this situation is "the age of the personal computer." We also see on the one hand the development of audiovisual mass media such as broadcast satellites, while on the other hand the continuing spread of personal communication media such as personal portable telephones. And on top of these phenomena, the world of "multimedia" is now expanding at a rapid pace.To these developments, the first direct response by religious groups can be observed in their methods of proselytizing activities. Many religious organizations now utilize socalled "new media" in their proselytization activities.Another remarkable feature of the information age is the new geographical and social extent or "reach" of information. It is noteworthy that even information formerly limited to professionals or specialists can no longer be kept as the exclusive preserve of closed societies, namely, particularistic social strata, professional associations, or members of certain organizations. In this sense, geographical and social boundaries are being broken in numerous ways and places. Information formerly the preserve of a limited membership of certain closed groups is now increasingly obtained through a variety of means by "outsiders." This trend is visible in academic fields, journalism, enterprise activities, and even national secrets, and the new world of the "Internet" will accelerate the trend. These developments involve factors which imply clear changes in previous concepts of "group" and "organization." And religious groups will be forced to adapt.We should also note a changing trend in the contents of information and communication. With the development of new means of information exchange, and establishment of "networks" differing from the traditional social networks, the information exchanged tends to be of a more diverse nature, and it is pregnant with the potential to even change people's categories with respect to the objects of knowledge. For example, we will likely see increasing numbers of people possessing more advanced specialist knowledge than professional experts in the field. In the matter of religion, it becomes possible that those not trained as religious professionals might easily possess more abundant religious knowledge than priests, monks, or ministers. I provisionally label this phenomenon "changing intellectual places," and feel it likely that the trend toward such intellectual reversal of positions will increase in the future.Within this condition of a qualitative change in information, the control of information will become an increasingly heavy concern in carrying out one's purposes, whether that purpose be political, economic, or cultural in nature. Namely, in increasing cases, it is becoming more decisive to know how to collect and use more relevant information, than to know how to meet more people, deepen one's communication with them, and develop mutual confidence, and as I shall point out below, there are signs that this fact is becoming true even for the sacred realms of religion. Viewed in these terms, we are forced to admit that the information age is leading the way to a monumental transformation in human culture.2. The Globalization of ReligionNext, I want to discuss various religious transformations in the information age from the viewpoint of globalization. First, regarding the concept of globalization: this expression is encountered frequently, but just as frequently with different meanings. Some use it to mean much the same as "internationalization," while others define it as a kind of "borderless" phenomenon. Roland Robertson has provided a fruitful definition for globalization in regard to the religious realm, and I must confess that I have been influenced by several aspects of his discussion on globalization in recent years. And I share Robertson's idea that the concept of globalization should be clearly distinguished from that of internationalization.Although the processes of internationalization and globalization occasionally overlap and involve some of the same characteristics, it is more appropriate for purposes of analysis of the current situation to define them as two essentially different process. Namely, internationalization should be understood, literally, as the process of deepening mutual relations among nations, while globalization is unique in that it often violates or transcends the concept of, or boundaries among, nations. Accordingly, we can state that the modern world simultaneously contains both these processes, which proceed individually while delicately intersecting at certain points.Of the two, the phenomenon of globalization is most striking in the fields of economic and scientific technology. The financial market continues to grow more borderless day by day, while new technology is shared through the world almost instantly. The topic I treat today, however, is the one of far more conservative cultural phenomena like religion. Fullscale globalization in the field of cultural phenomena is still in its infancy, though incipient signs can be found in every aspect of daily life. What perspective is most apt for considering globalization in this sense?Globalization in cultural phenomena occurs with different characteristics depending on the specific area of culture involved. It is likely that globalization will occur in a different way in areas decisively concerned with language, for example, national literature and scripts, from areas not so crucially concerned, such as the artistic fields of music and dance. And the precise form globalization will take in the case of religion is not yet clear. Regardless of the difficulties involved in making specific predictions regarding the direction of coming change, cultural globalization will share certain characteristics of other globalization processes, namely the weakening or disappearance of borders between nations, societies, and ethnic groups, and simultaneous unfolding of events on a global scale. And it must be added that the principle according to which these things will unfold is that of competition in a free market.When this vision of globalization is applied to religion, we can suggest that we will see steady change from the conventional form of religion linked intimately to the histories and cultures of respective nations and ethnic groups. Instead, the activities of individual religious groups will take on the increasing characteristic of free competition on a global scale. Further, there is also the possibility of witnessing great transformations in the traditional structure of the historical religions.The phenomenon of a religion's expanding without ties to a specific nation, society, or ethnic group is not, in itself, new. Religion is fundamentally is endowed with just such powers of survival. But what I wish to emphasize here is the fact that the concept of globalization concerns the situation after the branches and sects of socalled "world religions"  namely, Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism  have established their religiocultural spheres throughout the world. Everywhere in the world one can observe the deep connection between religion and the state or ethnic group, and various religious structures  together with the characteristics originally held by the religion or sect  have often undergone great transformations in the process of developing within specific nations or ethnic groups. For example, the same Mahayana Buddhism has developed substantially different social functions in the neighboring countries of Korea and Japan. In this way, each region of the world can be defined by a distribution map of its main religious groups, while at the same time, the religion within each nation and ethnic group has come to possess its own unique characteristics.In this context, the globalization of religion can be understood as a process of realignment in this global religious situation, a process which involves the following three facets: First, it implies the inevitable transformation of individual religious organizations; second, it can be expected that new characteristics will be produced in the contents of doctrines, rituals, and practices; and third, globalization will be accompanied by changes in the human beings supporting religions, particularly in their intellectual perspectives. In the following section, I want to discuss these three points while considering concrete examples, primarily from Japan, Asia, and the United States.3. Transformations in Religious OrganizationThe first question I want to consider here is what kind of organizational forms will take primacy in globalization. One type which has already appeared is seen in the concept of "multinational religion" studied by Nakamaki Hirochika. While the concept of a "multinational" religion was obviously borrowed from that of a multinational corporation, it is not merely a form of analogy, but rests on the notion that the same current global conditions influence both the economic activities of the multinational corporation and the proselytizing activities of the religious organization. In the same way that it is natural for a corporation with global strategy to become a multinational, it is characteristic for a religious group with a global perspective to go the multinational route, regardless of whether the group is traditional or quite new.In terms of organizational characteristics, I would describe a multinational religion as a group organized around modern systems of proselytization, with semiindependent operation of the organizations in each country in accordance with the unique cultural and social situations of the respective country, but also characterized by the presence of mutual organic relations between the various national branches, and oriented toward continual enlargement of the organization as a whole. A prototypical multinational religious group of Japanese origin is Soka Gakkai, while the Church of World Messianity, Sukyo Mahikari, and Perfect Liberty can also be included as groups in the process of multinationalization. Soka Gakkai is organized globally under the name Soka Gakkai International (SGI); this umbrella organization comprehends individual country groups like "Soka Gakkai of France" or "Soka Gakkai of America" which in turn maintain mutual relations as sister organizations. While it is true that the Japanese Soka Gakkai organization functions as a central headquarters, each national organization undertakes its activities in response to the unique conditions of its respective host country.In Japan, the emergence of religious groups at a "premultinational" stage was clearly apparent in the period immediately following World War II. Some groups had engaged in international activities in the prewar period, but most were directed at expatriot Japanese or Japanese emigrants in the Americas, and at expatriot Japanese in those Asian countries over which Japan had established political or military control. Many Japanese emigrated to Hawaii and the Americas in the prewar period, and they and their descendants wanted to maintain the same religious rituals they had known in Japan. On the other hand, many Japanese were also present in Korea, Taiwan, mainland China and other Asian countries. The Japanese government wanted to establish Shinto shrines in colonized areas, and many Buddhist priests likewise began missionary activities there. As a result, many Shinto shrines and Buddhist temples came to exist in Korea and Taiwan during the period of colonization, and the great majority of adherents at these religious institutions were Japanese.After Japan's defeat in World War II, the Japanese religious groups that had existed in Asia disappeared almost completely, while they continued to exist in the Americas. This difference was obviously because the religions had not been accepted by the natives of the Asian countries. Later, however, after Japan entered its period of high economic growth in 1955, religious groups engaging in overseas proselytization gradually increased, and at present, a total of some twenty groups (including some of very small scale) engage in some degree of overseas proselytization. And these groups include a considerable number of nonJapanese members. In addition to the Americas, these groups are active in various countries of Europe and Asia, and a limited part of Africa.A great factor in the increasing overseas activities by Japanese religious groups can be tied to Japan's growing economic clout, but it is noteworthy that it is the new religions, and not the established sects of Buddhism and Shrine Shinto that are at the forefront of this overseas activity. With the exception of a limited number of Zen organizations, the traditional established groups of Buddhism and Shinto tend to focus their efforts on Japanese expatriots or ethnic Japanese. In contrast, the proportion of nonJapanese in the new religions continues to grow. The great majority of the Japanese new religions have the latent potential to become multinational.On the other hand, multinational religious groups of foreign origin are also present in Japan; one example is the Unification Church from Korea. The Unification Church is increasing its membership in Korea, Japan, the U.S. and other countries. The Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons (Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints) can likewise be included in this category. Both the latter began their activity in the nineteenth century United States, going on to become multinational in orientation only in this century. It is likely that the U.S. produced the first multinational religious groups, and that because of the high incidence of ethnic groups and their religions.Rajneesh's movement, which originally started in India in the 1960s is often considered to be another multinational religion. And recently, several Taoist sects from Taiwan have spread to Japan, most of them from the branch called in Japanese ikkando; it is not yet clear whether these Taoist movements will follow the path of multinationalism, although they retain the potential. It may be worthwhile to consider that the spread of Asian religions to Japan may serve as springboard to the globalization of those religions in the greater Asian region.In addition to the multinational type of religion, the "networking" type of organization also holds the potential for future growth. The network religion operates not so much by advancing with overseas propagation and the establishment of branch organizations, but rather by seeking global sympathizers with socioreligious activities promoted by the religious group, thus aiming at the fostering of participation in various kinds of social movements, including peace movements, environmentalprotection movements, and social reform movements. In this case, enlargement of the group organization itself is secondary to participation in the movement. While such groups are relatively rare, the peace movement promoted by Byakko Shinkokai can be considered one example.Similarly, a growing movement with interest in the "spirit world" (seishin sekai) has been apparent in Japan since the 1970s, and seeks to enhance innate human "spirituality," as influenced by the various "new age" movements which began in the United States. This movement likewise has the potential for global expansion.With the advent of the multimedia age, it is likely that we will see the appearance of additional new forms of electronic communication based on computers. Religious information is already being exchanged using electronic mail or "email," and it is said that Aum Shinrikyo attempted to use this kind of media. While we cannot predict the future of computer communications, a "shapeless organization" based on such computer communications is not beyond the realm of possibility. And the possibility also exists for the emergence of "stateless religions" existing without clear country of origin or headquarters.4. Transformations in Doctrine, Ritual, and ActivityWhat will globalization mean for the transformation of religious doctrines, rituals and practices? The most likely aspect of change is a combination of various elements from different streams, a phenomenon which I would like to describe as "neosyncretism." Neosyncretism is at base a variety of syncretism, though I offer the "neo" in respect of its unique features as part of the information age.The phenomenon of syncretism is entirely natural within societies where multiple religious traditions coexist. The syncretistic relationship existing between Shinto and Buddhism is well known in Japan, while syncretism existed between Taoism, Confucianism and Buddhism in China, and between Buddhism and Hinduism in wide areas of South and Southeast Asian countries. What is the difference between these classical forms of syncretism and "neosyncretism"? The most important difference I wish to suggest is the fact that in neosyncretism, doctrines and rituals are amalgamated intentionally and aggressively, merely on the basis of available information, and without the necessity of any actual contact between the religious groups involved.Syncretism is a broad characteristic of the Japanese new religions, most of which are based elements taken from both Shinto and Buddhism. Most new religions of the Meiji period (18671912) can be understood as being based on doctrines and ceremonies taken from earlier conventional established religions, adapted for the current climate. But in recent years, increasing cases can be seen of new religions borrowing elements from Christianity, "primitive Buddhism," Theravada Buddhism, American "new age" movements and other religious traditions with origins decidedly outside of the pattern of conventional established religions in Japan. In extreme cases, the doctrines appear as little more than a "patchwork" concoction without coherence, yet it is this form that can be viewed as prototypical "neosyncretism."The influence of the religion of Ômoto is likely a crucial factor in the incidence of neosyncretism in many recent new religions. Established toward the end of the nineteenth century, Ômoto grew to its greatest extent between around 1910 and the 1930s, espousing the basic doctrinal tenet that "all religions are one" or "all religions have the same origin." The idea that all religions have a common base is shared by many recent new religions, and it is likely that this idea has had the effect of weakening any reluctance to adopt elements from a variety of external religious traditions.At the same time, it should be noted that one effect of the "information age" has been to make it easier to gain access to information regarding the teachings and activities of other religions. Even those without professional religious training can easily gain information of this kind, making it easier to form new religious movements without the necessity of being bound to a single tradition in one's own society, merely by adopting personally appealing elements from a variety of sources.Similar phenomena can be observed in the new religions of the United States. According to my understanding, when the term "new religion" is applied to cases in the United States, it ordinarily is accompanied by the implication that it includes elements of foreign origin. In particular, the term is used to refer to religions involving a Christian base with the addition of elements borrowed from Hinduism, Buddhism or other Eastern thought. These kinds of movements occurred primarily on the United States West Coast in the period following World War II. The "People's Temple," notorious for its collective suicide in Guyana in 1978, was led by Jim Jones, who was said to have been strongly influenced by Chinese Maoist thought.On the other hand, many countries in East and Southeast Asia have historically been open to syncretistic movements. In many areas, Buddhism, Hinduism, Christianity, Islam, Confucianism and Taoism have been blessed by a cultural ambience allowing long periods of coexistence. In this situation, it will be an item of interest whether and to what degree "neosyncretistic" religions become conspicuous in the future.5. Transformations in Intellectual EnvironmentHow will the globalization process change the situation of those concerned with religion? Here, the intellectual environment of the people involved is crucial. The information age has had a momentous effect on changing the intellectual environment, since one important meaning of the information age is that increasing numbers of people become not just consumers of information, but transmitters of information in their own right. If the only revolution were one of technology and hardware, we could not call it the "information age." When the majority of people cannot utilize the technical innovations involved, the technology itself tends to be used by one segment of information transmitters exclusively as a means of controlling the masses of information receivers.The condition of popular culture might be called a supporting pillar of the information age, and it promotes the globalization of religion as well. By "condition of popular culture" I mean that the overall intellectual level of the populace is raised, promoting standardization and preventing a limited intellectual elite from monopolizing access to information. Within this situation, religious information likewise cannot be monopolized by religious professionals. Every individual now has a chance to be a transmitter, receiver, and mediator of religious discourse. Here, one will see increasing numbers of individual emerging from the popular background to become religious leaders, preaching a message not only simple enough to be accepted by other ordinary people, but delivered in such a way that those adherents can easily turn around and transmit the message to others.Within this situation, the authority and power of control which religious organizations have traditionally possessed will tend to be weakened and transformed. In the process of religious globalization, a "useroriented religious market" will emerge in addition to the conventional "produceroriented system," and the very distinction between "leader" and "follower" will likely become increasingly ambiguous.Some additional explanation: my uses of the economic expression produceroriented system refers to the way we typically think about conventional religious groups. The core for the social functioning and historical continuity of a religion is the church for Christianity, or the sangha in Buddhism, the umma of Islam, the shrine in Shinto, and the various group headquarters of the new religions. In this context, the church symbolizes the authority of the religion; the doctrines are based on traditions which churches have maintained, while priests, monks, and ministers have attempted to interpret religious information to the believers. The role of believers is merely to accept this situation.The "useroriented religious market," on the other hand, refers to a situation in which each individual, in response to his or her personal values and sensibilities, considers, selects, and tries out those elements which he finds most attractive and suitable from the mass of competing religions. From the perspective of the producercentered orientation, such behavior is assessed as a lack of religious seriousness, or a wavering of faith, but from the standpoint of the religious user, it is only logical to attempt to select what one determines to be the best of several alternatives.As suggested earlier, the distinction between transmitters and receivers of religious information is likely to become increasingly ambiguous. Within the Japanese new religions, a common phenomenon is for an individual who was once a member of one religious group to later become the founder of his or her own movement. Other groups frequently adopt a system whereby each new member is expected to act as an active minister for the group, a system which I call the "allmember proselytizer" system. In short, it is not unusual for new members to be expected to devote themselves to proselytizing activities after a relatively short period of formal training. These tendencies have contributed to increasing unclarity in the boundary between "producers" and "user"" of religion. This trend has been accelerated by the trend toward "intellectual popularization" which has proceeded in Japan.And most recently, increasing examples can be seen of religions which being transmitted without reliance on any specific individuals engaged in missionary activities. For example, Japanese new religions frequently gain foreign members by the informal efforts of Japanese lay members who are sent to work at companies or factories in other Asian countries. This is partly another evidence of the "allmember proselytizer" system at work, but it can also be understood part of the process of global expansion of religious movements without reliance on a professional clergy.This trend can likewise be witnessed in the case of Saibaba, the leader of an Indian religious movement which became widely popular in Japan after it was introduced in a book authored by a young Japanese scientist. In short, the key to religious success frequently lies less in the quality of one's credentials as a religious professional than in one's ability to successfully manipulate the media.This situation likewise reflects the declining authority of religious professionals within the traditional established religions. One effect of the information age will be the increasing loss of prestige by religious professionals such as monks, priests, pastors, and ministers. We are now entering an age in which small groups of religious professionals will no longer be able to monopolize religious information. Lay believers now have increasing ability to avail themselves of the central core of religious traditions, even those esoteric elements formerly unavailable except to specially authorized clergy. And as a result, those religious authorities which were formerly sustained by their role in maintaining an esoteric religious core will suffer a general loss of prestige. Needless to say, this loss refers to the overall authority which conventional religious organizations have maintained, and it is on quite a different plane from the dignity and prestige of each religious professional as an individual, since it is obvious that both reputable and disreputable clergy have existed in every religion and every era.In sum, the information age is resulting in diminished distance between religious professionals and lay adherents. In fact, it is no longer the exceptional case to find ordinary people who possess a deeper understanding of Buddhism or Shinto than professional Buddhist monks or Shinto priests. This tendency will likely increase in the future, and it cannot be entirely explained by the apathy of individual members of the clergy. Rather, it is the result of the fact, as I have suggested above, that the information society tends to erase the distinction between such specialists and the lay population. The significance of this development is that the traditional, historical religions will likely find it increasingly difficult to develop systems for training their next generations of religious professionals. Within the process of globalization, many religions are confronting the relativization of their own significance, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to make the claim of unique religious legitimacy for a single group. As the information age progresses, growing numbers of people will view religion through more critical, relativizing lenses, but limited to the Japanese case, it would appear that traditional religions are responding to this situation in an inarticulate way.6. ConclusionThe globalization of religion should be understood as an inevitable historical process, and it is not my purpose here to make a value assessment of its desirability. If, however, the trends which I have described in the foregoing continue to progress, certain negative effects will naturally be exerted on society. For example, we may expect the appearance of more groups like Aum Shinrikyo, and if groups engage in criminal and antisocial activities like Aum, it can be viewed as symptomatic of certain dangers posed by the information age.The doctrines of Aum Shinriky were a hodgepodge adopted from a variety of existing religions. They exhibited neosyncretistic traits by adopting the Christian concept of Armageddon while piously insisting that they were followers of primitive Buddhism. They also used video taped propaganda messages to inculcate new acolytes with the Aum worldview, an application of modern information technology to proselytizing activities. Finally they engaged in overseas activities, mainly in Russia following the collapse of the communist government, and it is said that they quickly attracted between 30,000 and 50,000 followers, a line of activity which can perhaps also be considered a typical strategy in the age of globalization.oOn the other hand, the easy connection between religion and crime is one indication of the dangers inherent in the information age. Aum sought young people with top minds in natural sciences, so group leaders collected electronic data regarding recent top college graduates in certain scientific fields, and engaged in proselytization focused on those graduates. As they sought ways of producing poisonous gas, they used electronic communications to amass scientific and technical data. They easily engaged in activities that previous Japanese new religions had never imagined. Although a great difference naturally lies between the possibility of an activity and actually engaging in it, the Aum affair illustrates the easy potential for a group to launch out on such a direction in the context of the information age. In short, criminal activity is another object of globalization.The globalization of religion presents numerous problems outside those involved by the Aum affair. As the traditional religions lose their overall legitimacy and authority, the social integrating role of religion will be weakened. Particularly for social groups like the nation and traditional communities, religion may come to foment more tension than integration.As increasing elements of foreign culture and religion are introduced to Japan from the United States, Korea, India, and Taiwan, the Japanese population's linkage to traditional religion is weakened, particularly among the younger generation. For example, traditional religious observances celebrating New Year are decreasing, while those centered on Christmas or other religious holidays of foreign origin are becoming more popular. One sees increasing unconcern with the Buddhist seasonal holidays of setsubun or higan, and more with St. Valentine's day and Halloween. Needless to say, the latter are not being accepted as "religious" rituals, but only as a kind of noneveryday event or secular festival. And this fact points out another aspect of the process of globalization, namely the increasing fuzziness of discrimination between the realms of the religious and nonreligious or the secular. Since religion enjoys a different status in different places around the globe, the concept of religion itself is forced to undergo transformation as part of the process of globalization. These processes, however, should not be understood merely as a breakdown of tradition, and which must therefore be inhibited. The globalization processes do not proceed in specific fields or areas, but function as a rearrangement of world systems. As a result, the globalization of religion should be understood as one part of this process. Because it is only one part, it may be characterized by certain idiosyncrasies unique to it, but not so great that it cannot be described by the overall principles governing the globalization metaphor.Globalization makes it inevitable that the form of missionary activities, human relationships, and the content of religious information communicated will be transformed. The most important point, then, may be to emphasize that the nature of the globalization process itself needs to be more widely perceived and understood by more people, particularly those of its aspects which threaten to generate negative results for our societies.As a contested term, globalization has many definitions, each worthy of merit. Generally, globalization is first thought of “in economic and political terms, as a movement of capitalism spreading across the globe.” It calls to mind “homogenizing exports of the US” such as Nike, McDonald’s, and MTV. However, since globalization can be defined as a process of an “ever more interdependent world” where “political, economic, social, and cultural relationships are not restricted to territorial boundaries or to state actors,” globalization has much do with its impact on cultures.As goods and finance crisscross across the globe, globalization shifts the cultural makeup of the globe and creates a homogenized “global culture.” Although not a new phenomenon, the process of globalization has truly made the world a smaller place in which political, social, and economic events elsewhere affect individuals anywhere. As a result, individuals “search for constant time and spacebounded identities” in a world ever changing by the day. One such identity is religion.Generally, religion is a “system of beliefs and practices.” More specifically, the word comes from the Latin “religare” which means “to bind together again that which was once bound but has since been torn apart or broken.” Indeed, with the globalization of economics and politics, individuals feel insecure “as the life they once led is being contested and changed at the same time.” Hence, “in order for a person to maintain a sense of psychological wellbeing and avoid existential anxiety,” individuals turn to scripture stories and teachings that provide a vision about how they can be bound to a “meaningful world,” a world that is quickly changing daybyday.Nonetheless, the relationship between globalization and religion is one with new possibilities and furthering challenges. On the one hand, while religion takes advantage of communication and transportation technology, it is at the same time the source of globalization’s greatest resistance by acting as a haven for those standing in opposition to its power. On the other hand, because globalization allows for daily contact, religion enters a circle of conflict in which religions become “more selfconscious of themselves as being world religions.” This essay argues that the relationship between religion and globalization is complex, one with new possibilities and furthering challenges. However, this essay cannot provide a comprehensive overview of religion and globalization, as the terrain is too vast. Still, it does provide several examples to illustrate the complex relationship between the two.First, this essay explains how globalization engenders greater religious tolerance across areas such as politics, economics, and society. Second, it explains that as globalization does so, it also disrupts traditional communities, causes economic marginalization, and brings individuals mental stress, all of which create a backlash of religious parochialism. Third, although globalization paves the way in bringing cultures, identities, and religions in direct contact, this essay also explains that globalization brings religions to a circle of conflicts that reinforces their specific identities. Finally, using three paradigmatic individuals and their use of religious ideals in their human rights work, this essay provides some suggestions on how not just religions but humanity can use existing religious principles as ways to overlook religious and cultural differences.Globalization Engendering Greater Religious ToleranceGlobalization brings a culture of pluralism, meaning religions “with overlapping but distinctive ethics and interests” interact with one another. Essentially, the world’s leading religious traditions—Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam—teach values such as human dignity, equality, freedom, peace, and solidarity. More specifically, religions maintain the Golden Rule: “what you do not wish done to yourself, do not do to others.” Therefore, through such religious values, globalization engenders greater religious tolerance in such areas as politics, economics, and society.In political areas, globalization has built global political forums that integrate cultural, ethnic, and religious differences—ideologies that were once perceived as dividing the world—through a large number of international organizations such as the United Nations (UN) and the World Health Organization (WHO), as well regional organizations like the European Union (EU), the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), or the African Union (AU). When discussing issues such as international peace and security, health issues, poverty, and environment, these organizations generally share many of the same basic commitments as religious traditions—mainly peace, human dignity, and human equality, as well as conflict resolution in which they actively engage in negotiation, mediation, and diplomacy.In addition to these political organizations, religious communities such as the Roman Catholic Church, the World Council of Churches, and the Jewish Diaspora also take part in international affairs. For instance, they have taken part in events such the Jubilee 2000, an international effort advocating for cancelling Third World debt by the year 2000, and the World Faiths Development Dialogue, an effort of international faith leaders along with the World Bank to support development agendas corresponding to the UN’s Millennium Development Goals. Furthermore, religious organizations have, themselves, been involved in interreligious dialogue. The Parliament of the World’s Religions of 1993, first conveyed during the 1893 Chicago World Exhibit, brought the world’s diverse faith traditions—from African indigenous religions, the major religions (Judaism, Christianity, and Islam), to any forms of faith that would agree to civil dialogue through mutual encounter—to use their similar values and discuss world affairs.In terms of economics, as the economy of the major countries of the world has grown, the main religions of each of those countries have also grown financially, providing more financial resources for religions to spread their beliefs. For example, although it may seem as an old tactic, missionary work—especially in light of globalization—is strong in many Third World countries where religious representatives convert the natives. As a result, the major religions today have scattered across the globe—Christianity turning “southern” and “black,” Islam turning “Asian,” and Buddhism turning “white” and “western.” Still holding on to their original territorial spaces where their shrines exist, religions are fulfilling their general purpose of spreading their beliefs to people all over the world.Finally, religion has tremendously benefited from technological advancements. For example, websites provide information and explanations about different religions to any person regardless of his or her geographical location, as well as provide the opportunity to contact others worldwide and hold debates which allow religious ideas to spread. Furthermore, television allows for religious channels that provide visual religious teachings and practices. Hence, by making the leap onto the information superhighway, which brings religious teachings into every home and monitor in a global setting, religions have come together into one setting.In short, globalization allows for religions previously isolated from one another to now have regular and unavoidable contact. As a result, globalization brings to the light the fact that since religions have similar values, not one of them is “correct” and, therefore, can be changed. But as the next section shows, the same process that engenders greater religious tolerance also creates a backlash of religious parochialism.Globalization Creating Backlash of Religious ParochialismSince globalization is considered as “the first truly world revolution,” “all revolutions disrupt the traditions and customs of a people”—that is, “people’s very security, safety, and identity.” As globalization disrupts traditional communities, causes economic marginalization, and brings mental stress, individuals feel these less desirable consequences of globalization. With religion’s power to “convey a picture of security, stability, and simple answers” through stories and beliefs—unlike economic plans, political programs, or legal regulations—individuals turn to religion.First, globalization breaks down traditional communities and replaces them with larger, impersonal organizations. As globalization creates a “global village,” it dramatically alters what individuals traditionally understood themselves by—“citizenship,” “nationality,” and “immigration.” For instance, the European Union (EU) does not call their members by country of origin but rather by their greater title, European citizens. Moreover, such organizations set universal standards upon all members, causing individuals to believe that they are not fairly represented. As a result, feeling that these organizations have shattered their “protective cocoon” that has shielded them in the past, many individuals find comfort in religion.In giving individuals a sense of belonging, religious groups help them to find themselves in modern times. For instance, religious leaders, pointing to modern society’s loss of ethical values and increased corruption, preach, “the only answer to the current ‘decay’ is a return to traditional values and religious norms.” Hence, religion supplies these individuals with a feeling of being a part of a group that represents their interests and allows them to regain their traditional sense of who they are.Second, globalization brings economic marginalization. For example, as transnational corporations increasingly take over the role of the state’s involvement in the economic sector, the government loses its status as a welfare provider. Moreover, increasing the gaps between those who have benefit from the global market (generally the West) and those who have been left behind (generally the Global South), globalization is seen as “Western imperialism,” as well as “Americanization.” For instance, globalization “encourage people to buy American goods and services, which ultimately “undermines deeprooted communal values.” Simply put, individuals are bombarded with McDonald’s, Nike, and MTV.By responding to individuals’ desire for welfare, as well as acting as a cultural protection against globalization, religion plays a social role and gains more recognition from the marginalized, particularly those in Third World countries. For instance, religious organizations such as Catholic Relief Services, World Vision International, and Islamic Relief Worldwide help serve the disadvantaged in areas such as poverty relief, health care, the HIV/AIDs crisis, and environment problems. In fact, even if only promising prosperity and hope of economic relief, these organizations draw massive followers as, by lacking “extensive transnational bureaucracies and chains of command,” they provide “the strength of collective identity and the depth of ethical commitments.”Last but not least, globalization causes mental stress. Although globalization allows for crisscrossing borders, it also leaves individuals worrying about losing work, status, or other privileges. Moreover, since globalization favors material prosperity as the aim of life over inner peace, individuals focus on attaining some material possession such as a house, car, game, or simply any object. When they attain such item(s), however, they find themselves empty inside and, therefore, realize that inner peace can never be achieved through material possessions.To these individuals then, religion provides them the way to inner peace and the sense of personal fulfillment. For example, individuals who feel insecure in the globalized world, in business or personal life, will often pray to God for his spiritual support. In addition, these individuals realize that getting involved within their communities and organizing together in social movements for a good cause brings more satisfaction to them than do material possessions. They see themselves as being part of something important and worthwhile.In short, in face of rapid changes in the globalized world, to regain the sense of certainty, many individuals turn to religion for a clear explanation of what is going on in the world. With its strength as a powerful identity that brings the message of unity and security in times of crisis, religion provides the idea of a “home.” But as the last section demonstrates, this religious identity becomes a major ingredient that reduces the self and the other to a number of cultural religious characteristics.Religious Identity and Globalization: Furthering ChallengesAs the previous section shows, since God has set the rules and has made them difficult to challenge, religion provides answers to questions concerning selfidentity. However, in providing such answers, religion also institutes a notion of “truth,” which implies an automatic exclusion of the one—called an “abject”—who does not adhere to such “truth.” In times of uncertainty like globalization, therefore, collective identity is reduced to a number of cultural religious characteristics —“them” and “us” and “they” and “our.” In other words, the abject suddenly becomes recognized as a threat.For example, since the 9/11 attacks, there has been a tendency of the West to link the religion of Islam with terrorist practices while AlQaeda links the US as Christian or a JudeoChristian nation. On the one hand, AlQaeda men who hijacked the planes on 9/11 saw the passengers and those working in the World Trade Center and Pentagon as “abjects” of Islam. On the other hand, the USled invasion of Afghanistan and then Iraq turned into wars of “Islamofacism” and a “crusade” to the divine in getting rid of evil. Moreover, other attacks on innocent people based on cultural religious characteristics occur today: Muslims in the United States, Western Europe, or India, Kurds in Iraq, and Jews in France. In other words, though socially constructed, these cultural religious characteristics become a unifying force against others not adhering to a particular truth.Interestingly then, the idea of religious identity in this era of globalization may hold inline with Huntington’s thesis. According to Huntington (1990), while conflict during the Cold War occurred between the Capitalist West and the Communist Bloc East, current and future conflicts are most likely to occur between the world’s major civilizations, and not the states, including Western, Latin American, Islamic, Sinic (Chinese), Hindu, Orthodox, Japanese, and the African. In a broader sense, having paved the way for religions to come in direct contacts with one another, globalization has, indeed, brought religions to a circle of competition and conflicts. As long as religions see themselves as “world religions” and reinforce their specific identities, the chance for religions to avoid conflict among one another is grey. Luckily, the final section brings some hope on how religions can use their existing principles as ways to overlook their differences.ConclusionIn a time in which globalization has yet to fully complete its process, religions must use the communication easily available through advanced technology to focus more on the humane and pluralistic forms of their teachings—values such as human dignity and human freedom—as means to manage religious diversity and avoid violence. In other words, religious should be open to other traditions and what they can teach. In fact, though having “fixed texts,” the major world religions do not have “fixed beliefs,” “only fixed interpretations of those beliefs,” meaning their beliefs can be “rediscovered, reinvented, and reconceptualized.”As interesting examples, in their attempt to create the tradition of nonviolence from diverse religions and cultures, three paradigmatic individuals—Leo Tolstoy, Mohandas Gandhi, and Martin Luther King, Jr.—have, indeed, “rediscovered, reinvented, and reconceptualized” the beliefs of the world’s major religions. The three individuals indicate that “it is possible for narrative diversity to generate a shared ethic without sacrificing the diversity of particular religions.”For instance, although coming from a gentry class in Russia and receiving fame and fortune from his novels, Tolstoy converted to Christianity in part after reading a story about how a Syrian monk named Barlaam brought about the conversion of a young Indian prince named Josaphat, who gave up his wealth and family to seek an answer to aging, sickness, and death. Deeply indebted in Buddhism for his conversion to Christianity, Tolstoy, attempting to live his life by the teachings of Jesus’ Sermon on the Mount, gave away all his wealth and spent the rest of his life serving the poor. Nevertheless, the story about Barlaam and Josaphat has “worked its way into virtually all the world’s religions.”Similarly, Gandhi, when he encountered Tolstoy’s writings, drew his attention to the power of the Sermon on the Mount. In encountering Jesus’ Sermon, Gandhi became motivated to “turn the great Hindu narrative from the Mahabharata, the Bhagavad Gita, in order to find the message of nonviolence within his own religion and culture.” By finding that Tolstoy’s understanding of the Sermon on the Mount lacked “nonviolence as an active rather than a passive virtue . . . capable of producing an active resistance to evil,” he found it present in the Bhagavad Gita. As a result, Ghandi transformed the Bhagavad Gita from a story that authorized killing to one of nonviolence reflected from the story of Jacob wrestling with the stranger and Jesus’ Sermon on the Mount.Lastly, Martin Luther King, Jr. also drew insight from Buddhism, Hinduism, Christianity, and Judaism. For instance, connecting Gandhi with Jesus Christ, he saw Gandhi’s philosophy of nonviolence as similar to Jesus’ suffering on the cross. Therefore, King’s theological theme was the idea that “unmerited suffering is redemptive,” meaning he constantly reminded blacks that they would experience a “season of suffering” before they would achieve justice. In general terms, King’s theology focused on values grounded in religion—justice, love, and hope. In short, as Tolstoy, Ghandi, and King illustrate, “narrative traditions are not mutually exclusive.” They are connected through themes and, therefore, allow religions to engage in interreligious dialogue.As this essay’s previous sections show, religions have, indeed, taken part in dialogues beforehand. As a further example, religious leaders gathered at the UN’s Millennium Peace Summit in September 2000 to mark the turn of the millennium. A milestone in itself, as the UN is not a common ground in the sense of a ecumenical meeting inside a church, synagogue, or mosque but rather a global common ground, the Summit’s conversation encouraged that world’s religious communities stop fighting and arguing amongst themselves and begin working together for peace, justice, and social harmony. As then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan addressed to the Summit, “Whatever your past, whatever your calling, and whatever the differences among you, your presence here at the United Nations signifies your commitment to our global mission of tolerance, development, and peace.”Moreover, as transnational corporations increasingly become actors in the international system, one could argue that religious communities have agreed on “the emerging global ethic” which consists of three major components: 1) corporations are prohibited from involving in bribes and corruption, 2) corporations are prohibited from discriminating on the grounds of race, religion, ethnicity, or gender in the conduct of business, and 3) corporations are prohibited from activities that pose a significant threat to human life and health. Simply put, these components are, in themselves, religious values used to regulate the way transitional corporations increasingly engage in the global market.The bottom line is that the pieces of interreligious dialogue to manage religious diversity and to avoid violence are there, but the problem may be of globalization’s intentional and/or unintentional consequence of making religions more conscious of themselves as “world religions,” as well as the undesirable consequences of disrupting traditional communities, causing economic marginalization, and bringing individuals mental stress—all reinforcing religious cultural characteristics and identities. Hence, the relationship between religion and globalization has brought new possibilities but also furthering challenges.The globalist expansion of religion could be traced back to the colonial expansions of European powers starting in the 14th Century. While the search for spices was the initial push factor of the expansions, many Western “frontiersmen” found themselves settling in various areas all over the world—creating walled territories. Later, these frontiersmen conquered the surrounding areas, subjugating the local populace and making colonies. One way to subjugate the locals was through religion (Kim & Bhawuk, 2008). This was how Christianity was introduced to the inhabitants of all continents of the world.Fast forward five decades, into the modern world, there is no need for physical occupation for resources to circulate around the world. The internet makes sure of that. In the same way, with wide access to the internet and convenient travel, religions and religious practices also circulate around the world.With wide access to the internet and convenient travel, religions and religious practices also circulate around the world.This spread creates a mix of not only religious beliefs but also the practices and cultures of the locals (Bhawuk, 2008). For example, here in the Philippines, while religious practices are modeled after the Spanish, there remain cultural practices that are unique to Filipino culture. These include offering food for the souls of the deceased to consume (a practice discouraged by the Catholic Church but still persists) and devotees crucifying themselves for penitence, among others.Ironically, it is through this fast circulation that religious fundamentalism seems to spread (Salzman, 2008). This is not only observed in Islamic countries but also in countries with high percentages of other religions, such as fundamentalist Christians in the USA and fundamentalist Hindus in India. (Hall, 2002) In the Philippines alone, access to travel and internet communication allows Muslim fundamentalists in Mindanao to have outsourced training and armaments to terrorist cells outside the country. However, all is not lost. Globalization also promotes peace through religion and trade (Pyun & Lee, 2009). For example, in African countries, where terrorist organizations such as Boko Haram remain rampant, globalization in the form of religious aid and education remains a driving factor in the improvement of the quality of life in the continent (Amavila, Asongu, & Andres, 2017).GLOBAL POPULATION AND MOBILITYTHE GLOBAL POPULATION AND MOBILITY MIGRATION The movement of people from one place to another with the intentions of settling, permanently or temporarily at a new location. CATEGORIES OF PEOPLE WHO MIGRATE •Emigrant – a person who is leaving one country to live in another. •Immigrant – a person who is entering a country from another to make a new home. •Refugee – a person who has moved to a new country because of a problem in their former home. FOUR MODELS OF MIGRATION •Classic Model: Immigration is encouraged by the countries of destination like USA, Canada and Australia. The only restriction is annual quotas. •Colonial Model: Countries are more tolerant to immigration coming from their excolonies than other countries of origin. (i.e. immigration to England from the former British colonies) •Worker Model: Immigrants are accepted temporarily as guests workers to fulfil the demand within the labour market without citizenship. •Illegal Model: Entering an industrialized country secretly and work without legal permission. THE GLOBAL MIGRATION Why do people move? • SOCIAL FACTORS Social factors are things that affect someone’s lifestyle. These could include wealth, religion, buying habits, educational level, family size and structure and population density. • CULTURAL FACTORS The idea of culture is vital to understanding the implications for translation and despite the differences of opinion as to whether language is a part of culture or not, the two are connected. Culture range from syntax, ideologies, religion, language and dialect, art and literacy.  • ECONOMIC FACTORS Lack of employment opportunities or differentials in employment opportunities and wages; the lure of a wellpaid job in a wealthy country is a powerful driver of international migration. Lack of educational institutions across developing countries has also tremendously contributed to the reasons for migration.  • POLITICAL FACTORS The unattractiveness of agricultural activities, disasters, lack of basic amenities (roads, electricity, portable water, and inadequate health care facilities) and industrial ventures in countries have also encouraged international migration. • PUSHPULL FACTOR In geographical terms, the pushpull factors are those that drive people away from a place and draw people to a new location. A combination of pushpull factors helps determine migration or immigration of particular populations from one land to another. ➢ PUSH FACTOR: REASONS TO LEAVE Factors that help migrants decide to leave their home.  ➢ PULL FACTOR: REASONS TO MIGRATE Factors that attract people and area where immigrants are going.     MIGRATION AFFECTS BOTH THE PLACE OF ORIGIN AND THE PLACE OF DESTINATION ON THE VARIOUS ASPECTS SUCH AS ENVIRONMENTAL, ECONOMIC, HEALTH AND SOCIAL ASPECTS  Environmental Aspects Migration of people has the direct effect on both, the place of origin and the place of destination. Problems like settlement, overexploitation of resources, and the pollution of different kinds will be visible.  Economic Aspects The consequence on the place of origin will be a loss of economically active groups of the population. Health and Social Aspects The place of destination are normally those places where facilities are made available to a limited extent so as to fulfill the needs of the native dwellers. However, the places overcrowd with the constant flow of migrants, and facilities and other needs become insufficient. GLOBAL POPULATION AND MOBILITY Global Population and mobility Population mobility have changed radically in recent times, both in quantity and quality: “traditional” (economic) international migration is now accompanied by new types of mobility (refugees and displaced persons) caused by wars, persecution and environmental disasters. In recent years, the world has witnessed an intensification of population movements (IOM, 2017). Data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) shows that while the stock of international migrants increased from 69.3 million persons in 1960 to 247.6 million in 2015, the ratio of displaced persons to international migrants increased tenfold in that same period, from 2.5% to 25% (Figure 1). These figures are highly suggestive of two related processes: on the one hand, the increasing scale of international migration worldwide and, on the other, the growth of other forms of mobility over time. For instance, the number of displaced persons worldwide grew from 1.5 million in 1960 to 60.5 million in 2015, a fortyfold increase. There has also been a change in the composition of these flows, with refugees losing their dominance among the displaced: in 2006, Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) due to conflicts already outnumbered refugees. This points to another interesting feature of the evolution of mobility in recent years, its growing complexity and the highly heterogeneous nature of the movement of individuals across space.    Increased complexity Population movements have also become more complex in terms of their causes and consequences. The traditional idea of a migrant who opts for a welldefined migratory project has gradually been replaced by the figure of an agent whose aspirations, intentions, and opportunities for movement are shaped by a rapidly changing sociopolitical and economic context. Moreover, new events such as political conflicts and environmental disasters have created unprecedented challenges for understanding how and why individuals move, and what legal and humanitarian protection ought to be offered to them. While Afghanistan, Somalia and Sudan dominated the stock of refugees until the mid2000s, the Syrian and South Sudanese conflicts have made their mark in recent years (Figure 2). The impact of the Syrian conflict on the mobility of its population has been dramatic since the very outset. Syria has dominated the yearly flows of refugees since 2011 and surpassed the historical dominance of Colombia as the country with the highest number of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in 2013. The scales of the yearly flows of IDPs for the other countries shown in Figure 2 mirror the outbreak of local conflicts.      These figures reveal that the world today is a lot more complex than in the years that followed the Second World War, when much of the displacement was concentrated in Europe. The world was also less interconnected, making distances seem longer and destinations more uncertain. It was in this context that the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees was created in 1951. The Convention sought to guarantee protection to European citizens who, as a direct consequence of the War, had a wellfounded fear of returning to their country of origin on account of their race, religion, nationality, social group, or political orientation. Some years later, the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees was an important step towards the ‘democratization’ of these protections, removing the temporal and geographical restrictions of the Convention by extending the right to seek protection (asylum) to any citizen, not only from Europe. Since then, new dynamics and types of displacement have led to discussions on the need to retool these normative instruments, which constitute the central elements of the international refugee protection system. Some examples of the increasing complexity of these new movements are the growing numbers of people forced to leave their home because of their inability to guarantee their socioeconomic reproduction or who are escaping from conditions analogous to war. Displacement caused by environmental factors is another visible example of this complexity (IDMC, 2017). These new motilities' highlight the need to develop regulations that are more consistent with the principles contained in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They also raise questions about the impact of these movements on the economies of the countries of destination, as well as their potential for cultural and political conflicts.  The emergence and intensification of old and new conflicts and crises have affected a growing number of countries in the Global South such as Libya, Syria, Yemen, Venezuela, and the Northern Triangle of Central America. There has also been a significant increase in the numbers of people displaced by environmental disasters linked to climate change. It is estimated that in 2016 alone, 31.1 million people were (internally) displaced by conflict, violence, and disasters: one person is forced to flee every second. Of these, 6.9 million were displaced by conflict and violence, mainly in SubSaharan Africa and the Middle East, while 24.2 million were hit by climatic events such as typhoons in China and the Philippines, and floods in Indonesia and the Indian Subcontinent (IDMC, 2017). The current world population is 7.8 billion as of November 2020 according to the most recent United Nations estimates elaborated by World meter. The term "World Population" refers to the human population (the total number of humans currently living) of the world. GLOBAL CITY Global city, an urban centre that enjoys significant competitive advantages and that serves as a hub within a globalized economic system GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHY Demography is the study of human populations – their size, composition and distribution across space – and the process through which populations change. Births, deaths and migration are the 'big three' of demography, jointly producing population stability or change. GLOBAL MIGRATION a situation in which people go to live in foreign countries, especially in order to find work: Most global migration is from developing countries to developed ones THE GLOBAL CITY Who popularized the term global city? Saskia Sassen The term "global city", rather than "megacity", was popularized by sociologist Saskia Sassen in her 1991 work, The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo. 3 KEY TENDENCIES OF GLOBAL CITY:  One; is a concentration of wealth in the hands of owners, partners, and professionals associated with the highend firms in this system  Second; is a growing disconnection between the city and its region.  Third; is the growth of a large marginalized population that has a very hard time earning a living in the marketplace defined by these highend activities. In the age of globalization, the activities of production are scattered on a global basis. These complex, globalized production networks require new forms of financial and producer services to manage them. These services are often complex and require highly specialized skills. Thus they are subject to agglomeration economics, and tend to cluster in a limited number of cities. Because specialized talent and firms related to different specialties can cluster in different cities, this means that there are actually a quite a few of these specialized production nodes, because they don’t necessarily directly compete with each other, having different groupings of specialties. In this world then, a global city is a significant production point of specialized financial and producer services that make the globalized economy run.   HOW TO IDENTIFY GLOBAL CITIES: The Institute for Urban Strategies at The Mori Memorial Foundation in Tokyo published another study called “The Global Power Index 2011.” ~  Economy (Market Attractiveness, Economic Vitality, Business Environment, Regulations and Risk) ~  Research and Development (Research Background, Readiness for Accepting and Supporting Researchers, Research Achievement) ~  Cultural Interaction (Trendsetting Potential, Accommodation Environment, Resources of Attracting Visitors, Dining and Shopping, Volume of Interaction) ~  Liveability (Working Environment, Cost of Living, Security and Safety, Life Support Functions) ~  Environment (Ecology, Pollution, Natural Environment) ~  Accessibility (International Transportation Infrastructure, Inner City Transportation Infrastructure)   CHALLENGES OF A GLOBAL CITY 1. Environmental threats ~  Rapid urbanization, which strains basic infrastructure, coupled with more frequent and extreme weather events linked to global climate change is exacerbating the impact of environmental threats. Common environmental threats include flooding, tropical cyclones (to which coastal cities are particularly vulnerable), heat waves and epidemics. Recommended for youDocument continues below6CW Module 2  CONTEMPORARY WORLD LECTURESCW Module 2  CONTEMPORARY WORLD LECTURESContemporary Worl100% (16)4Global Media Cultures  Lecture notes 14Global Media Cultures  Lecture notes 14Contemporary Worl100% (15)5Lesson 4 Contemporary Global GovernanceLesson 4 Contemporary Global GovernanceContemporary Worl100% (5)9C&W 101 Contemporary WorldC&W 101 Contemporary WorldContemporary Worl100% (1)2. Resources ~  Cities need resources such as water, food and energy to be viable. Urban sprawl reduces available water catchment areas, agricultural lands and increases demand for energy. While better application of technology can boost agricultural productivity and ensure more efficient transmission of electricity, many cities will continue to struggle to provide these resources to an evergrowing urban population. 3. Inequality ~  When it comes to the provision of basic resources and resilience against environmental threats, the forecast is uneven for different groups of urban inhabitants. As the number of urban superrich grows, many cities will also see increased numbers of urban poor. 4. Technology ~  Technology will be increasingly used in the development and running of cities of the future. Smart planning used in Singapore can harness solar energy for use in housing estates and create manmade wetlands for ecological balance. Smart mobility technology can alleviate traffic gridlocks which plague many cities. 5. Governance ~  Future cities offer immense possibilities to enrich the lives of their inhabitants even as the challenges are stark. To make the best out of inevitable urbanization, good governance is imperative. Cities will increase in size and their populations become more diverse. Governing these cities will, therefore, be progressively complex and require the most dedicated of minds.  PROS AND CONS LIVING IN A GLOBAL CITY PROS: ~ Meeting New People ~  Activities ~  Public Transportation ~  Big Events ~  Shared Experience ~  Free Activities ~  Higher Salaries ~  More Job Opportunities ~  Lots of Dining Options ~  Close Proximity to Airports CONS: ~ High Cost of Living ~  Noise ~  Lack of Space ~  Lack of Parking ~  Higher Auto Insurance   Premiums ~  Higher Crime Rates GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHY DEMOGRAPHY ~ The word ‘Demography’ is a combination of two Greek words, ‘Demos’ meaning people and ‘Graphy’ meaning science. Thus demography is the science of people. ~  Demography is the study of human populations – their size, composition and distribution across space – and the process through which populations change. Births, deaths and migration are the 'big three' of demography, jointly producing population stability or change. ~ Demographics is the collection and analysis of broad characteristics about groups of people and population.  Demographic data is very useful for businesses to understand how to market consumers and plan strategically for future trends in consumer demand. The combination of the internet, big data, and artificial intelligence is greatly amplifying the usefulness and application of demographics as a tool for marketing and business strategy. What is demographic? ~  Demographics are the study of a population based on factors such as age, race, and sex. Demographic data refers to socioeconomic information expressed statistically, also including employment, education, income, marriage rates, birth and death rates and more factors. Governments, corporations, and nongovernment organizations use demographics to learn more about a population's characteristics for many purposes, including policy development and economic market research. Understanding Demographic  Demographics are the collection and study of data regarding the general characteristics of specific populations. It is frequently used as a business marketing tool to determine the best way to reach customers and assess their behaviour. By using demographics, dividing a population helps businesses to determine the size of a future market. The use of demographics helps to decide whether its goods and services are aimed at the most relevant customers of that business. Types of Demographic Information Demographic data is gathered for corporate marketing purposes to create a profile for the customer base of the company. In demographic research, the common variables that are collected include age, sex, level of income, ethnicity, job, location, homeownership, and level of education. To classify consumers, demographic information makes some generalizations about groups. Collecting data on interests, hobbies, lifestyle and more are additional demographic considerations. When conducting a population survey, government agencies collect data and can use the demographic data to predict economic trends and population growth to better manage resources. How Demographic Information is used ~  The use of demographics and the demographic domain is common. ~  Governments can use demographics to control and evaluate the effects of their policies and to decide if a policy has had both positive and negative effects or has had unintended effects. ~  Most large companies conduct demographic research to determine how to market their product or service and best market to the target audience. ~  This data allows the business to determine how much money to devote to manufacturing and advertising.   GLOBAL MIGRATION REASONS FOR GLOBAL MIGRATION:  ECONOMIC MIGRATIO  SOCIAL MIGRATION  POLITICAL  ENVIRONMENTAL COUNTRY LOSING PEOPLE: ADVANTAGES:  MONEY SENT HOME BY MIGRANT  DECREASES PRESSURE ON JOBS AND RESOURCES     MIGRANTS MAY RETURN WITH NEW SKILLS. COUNTRY LOSING PEOPLE: DISADVANTAGES:  PEOPLE WORKING AGE, MOVE OUT. REDUCING THE SIZE OF COUNTRY’S POTENTIAL WORKPLACE.   GENDER IMBALANCES ARE CAUSED AS IT IS TYPICALLY MEN WHO SEEK TO FIND EMPLOYMENT ELSEWHERE. WOMEN AND CHILDREEN ARE LEFT.  BRAIN DRAIN IF MANY SKILLED WORKERS LEAVE. HOST COUNTRY: ADVANTAGES:  A RICHER AND MORE DIVERSE CULTURE.  HELPS REDUCE ANY LABOUR SHORTAGE  MIGRANTS ARE MORE PREPARED TO TAKE ON LESS PAID, LOW SKILLED JOBS.  DISADVATAGES:  INCREASING COST OF SERVICES SUCH AS HEALTH CARE AND EDUCATION.  OVERCROWDING  DISAGREEMENTS BETWEEN DIFFERENT RELIGIOUS AND CULTURES Geographic mobility is the measure of how populations and goods move over time. Geographic mobility, population mobility, or more simply mobility is also a statistic that measures migration within a population. Commonly used in demography and human geography, it may also be used to describe the movement of animals between populations. These moves can be as large scale as international migrations or as small as regional commuting arrangements. Geographic mobility has a large impact on many sociological factors in a community and is a current topic of academic research. It varies between different regions depending on both formal policies and established social norms, and has different effects and responses in different societies. Population mobility has implications ranging from administrative changes in government and impacts on local economic growth to housing markets and demand for regional services.ContentsMeasurementNational geographic mobility data is available from census and public government records in the United States, the European Union, China and many other countries. International mobility data is available from tourism statistics and transportation carriers information. On the basis of these sources, the Global Transnational Mobility Dataset offers estimates of the number of people moving countrytocountry on a yearly basis. .United StatesMobility estimates in the Current Population Survey (CPS), produced by the United States Census Bureau, define mobility status on the basis of a comparison between the place of residence of each individual to the time of the March survey and the place of residence one year earlier. Nonmovers are all people who were living in the same house at the end of the migration period and the beginning of the migration period. Movers are all people who were living in a different house at the end of the period rather than at the beginning. They are further classified as to whether they were living in the same or different county, state, region, or were movers from abroad. Movers are also categorized by whether they moved within or between central cities, suburbs, and nonmetropolitan areas of the United States.The CPS includes information on reasons for a move. These include workrelated factors, such as a job transfer, job loss or looking for work, and wanting to be closer to work. Housing factors include wanting to own a home, rather than rent, seeking a better home or better neighborhood, or wanting cheaper housing. Additional mobility factors include attending college, changes in marital status, retirement, or healthrelated moves.European UnionThe Eurobarometer survey measures mobility in a similar manner to the US census. Direct comparison of the two is difficult due to social constraints of traveling between countries in the European Union not encountered with interstate travel within the United States. Differences include language barriers, cultural resistance, and the added hurdle of international labour laws.ChinaSeveral scholarly surveys have been conducted to measure geographic mobility in China, but no single comprehensive census is available. Since the year 2000 the National Bureau of Statistics of China has added migrant worker estimates to their annual household survey. The Chinese Development Research Center of the State Council also undertook a study in 2010 characterizing the scope of migration for work and relevant statistics of that population. The survey measured demographics such as age, education level, job type, income, expenses, housing, and leisure activities.Other measuresPopulation turnover is a related statistic that measures gross moves in relation to the size of the population, for example movement of residents into and out of a geographic location between census counts.Influencing factorsEconomic reasonsMost theoretical models attribute the desire to relocate to the impact of wages and salary and employment on personal expected earnings. The prospect of gainful employment in another region leads to movement to capitalize on new opportunities and resources unavailable in the original community. Perceptions, gaps in prospective incomes, availability of accurate information, and geographic distance all play a part in the decision to migrate. Studies have shown that unemployment rates statistically correlate to measured migrations in the EU (a relatively mobile society). Further, there is evidence that comparable statistical results can be obtained using labor availability interchangeably with population migration data.Surveys show potential movers also face anxiety about the prospects of actually finding a suitable job in their new location. The capacity to migrate depends on current income or access to credit to support the move, and is always up to chance. Economists have shown that the decline in home values in the US in the late 2000s diminished statetostate migration, with roughly 110,000 to 150,000 fewer individuals migrating across state lines in any given year. Socialized unemployment insurance programs help to increase individual liquidity and lessen the burden of search costs and movement risk. Research has shown that overall the presence of social insurance does not have a strong effect on the rate of personal movement because while it lowers relative movement costs, it also increases the opportunity costs of movement.Current international laws present challenges to ideal geographic mobility. Migrants must have a physical means (legal or illegal) over which to travel to a new country. An increase in individual income was shown to increase access to long distance transportation and enable individuals more freedom of travel. Seeking a job in another country often requires sponsorship, visas, or may not even be possible in a given situation. Government support is in no way guaranteed for international geographic mobility. Existing language and cultural barriers also severely hamper geographic mobility on both regional and national levels.Personal preferencesPersonal preference factors besides economic logic can exert a strong influence on an individual's geographic mobility. Concerns such as climate, the strength of regional housing markets, cultural comfort, family, and local social capital all play into the decision to move or not. Individualization of the job market in industrializing countries has led to an increased preference among workers to follow market opportunities. Media driven selfawareness and highly individualistic symbolism exported from the western world have allowed people to imagine themselves living completely different lifestyles. Western media glamorizes the image of the selfsufficient youth, showing examples of both men and women who lead strong, individualistic, empowered lifestyles. Globalization has destabilized previously immutable social institutions, shifting cultural value away from old traditions to new more individualistic and market friendly ideas. This combined with a privatization and individualization of labor has in many ways made fluidity more the norm than structure.The availability of geographic mobility can also directly affect an individual's selfempowerment. Large numbers of women in South Korea, Japan, and China are taking advantage of newly available travel opportunities: experiencing life overseas and touring or studying. In South Korea progressive educational reforms have led to large numbers of women receiving higher level degrees, but structural inequality in the job market makes it difficult for them to get middle or upper class jobs. 93% of women graduate from high school and 63% from college, but only 46.7% of college grads are employed. Further, those employed women suffer from a 76% wage differential compared to like qualified men. Japan has similar structural issues where half of the employed women in the country only work parttime. Geographic relocation presents social opportunities to both seek a more favorable job climate and a social order more accepting of educated women. The prospect of greater control over their own lives and careers draws many of these young women to build their futures away from their immediate surroundings: 80% of Japanese people studying abroad are women.Social forcesSocial forces can also foster individual geographic mobility. Support from the community can increase the probability of relocation—it has been shown that the chances of migration in India improve when groups of houses from the same subcaste all decide to move together. Worldly exposure also increase one's tendency to be mobile. Public health studies measured higher geographic mobility among female sex workers who: drank, had experienced violence, had worked for more than four years, and had a regular nonpaying partner than those who did not. American World War II veterans, who had traveled to distant continents and then returned, were more willing to relocate for jobs than the previous generation of Americans.Demographically, research shows that one's level of education tends to correlate to higher mobility, especially among university graduates. Youth and a lack of a family or children correlate to increased mobility too, with the peak in mobility occurring in the mid to late 20s for populations surveyed in Europe.Economic effectsLabor supplyGeographical mobility of labor allows the labor supply to respond to regional disparities, limiting economic inefficiencies. Low labor mobility quickly leads to inequality between static economic regions and a misappropriation of labor resources. Geographic mobility can help alleviate asymmetric shocks between regions with diversified economies, like in the European Union. A mobile population allows a region to shed workers when jobs are scarce and gives those workers the opportunity seek employment elsewhere where opportunities might be better. While an increase in geographic mobility increases overall economic efficiency, the increased competition for jobs on the local level in otherwise prosperous regions could lead to higher unemployment than before the migration.Female labor supply rates actually have larger statistical effect on mobility than male rates. Traditionally male jobs in the developing world have much more inelastic demand than female ones, so the variations in the female rate lead to more drastic changes in employment that more strongly affect mobility.Resource allocationLabor mobility theoretically leads to a more balanced and economically efficient distribution of jobs and resources overall. Individual employees can better match their skills to potential jobs on the open job market. They can seek out ideal jobs instead of artificially limiting themselves to their geographic areas. The opportunity to study abroad is a major vehicle of entry to western countries for Asian women. Moving to the West to study is a common career move for Asian women in their 20s, allowing them to abandon the traditional marriage track and pursue economic ventures outside the home.On the other hand, mobility can also have negative consequences on a region facing widespread emigration. Brain drain and labor resource diminishment make it more difficult for troubled regions to recover after an economic stumble. Additional people migrating into a region can also place extra stress on existing social infrastructure for services like healthcare, welfare, and unemployment.RemittancesGeographic mobility allows for remittances from distant family members back to support local needs. Loans and transfers can flow back from migrated members of a community to sustain those who remain behind. Remittances are one of the primary benefits of migration to the country of origin, not only substantially enhancing local family income but also spilling over into benefits of increased capital flow in the entire local economy. Remittances play a large role in sustaining the economies of many developing nations, for example bringing over US$1bn into the Philippines every month and eclipsing the entire tourism profit of Morocco.Female mobilityEmpowermentWith heightened selfawareness, educated women hope to grasp opportunities from moving, leading to increased female individualization and empowerment. Given access to travel, international education provides one of few avenues for women in China to live nontraditional personally emancipated lives. In Japan geographic mobility offers an opportunity to gain real job experience and advance a career too. Japanese society places a significant social pressure on women to get married, but many young women feel the need to “escape” and can find their independent selves in another setting.Many migrants do choose to continue to benefit and rely on older home ties though. These women cannot change behavior too much from social norms or risk being cut off. Studies show that household choices in India are affected by distance from the ancestral home, especially within the caste system.There are also other new risks for women in new locations. Female sex workers have statistically higher sexually transmitted diseases and HIV rates when more mobile. There is also potential for male backlash in a new setting. Domestic violence can be sparked by power struggles when newly empowered women regain some control traditionally held by men.ParticipationFemale labor participation is vital to improving regional disparities in a competitive world and will increase in value over time. Women's participation and creative energy is vital for the success of economies on a global scale. Female labor participation can act as a substitute for more generalized labor mobility too. In the European Union women provide a dynamic substitute for male labor with fluctuations in the economy. This allows for more geographic stability while maintaining the variability of a flexible labor economy. When families do migrate, woman often get employed first and become the breadwinner for the home. Even if this only lasts for a duration of time, the experience is empowering and helps shape social dynamics within the home.Often a relocation is primarily motivated by lack of any better opportunities in their prior situation though. Many of the women go through the trial of moving and starting over due to economic and social circumstances outside of her control. Research also seems to indicate that women and minorities migrating into a new area often act as economic substitutes for local minorities rather than paving their own new ground. Female income effects from migration will only kick in if there are sufficient differences between males and females too, so long term changes will likely not happen quickly.Transportation accessWomen have traditionally had more limited access to improved means of personal transportation and thus had more limited local mobility. Women surveyed in England were less likely overall than men to have drivers licenses and took longer to get to key destinations. Women often seek work closer to home compared to men, taking jobs in a more geographically confined area and relying more on nonautomobile transportation. Access to personal transportation can improve women's choice of feasible destinations and decrease average trip time.Effects on children, family, and educationIncreased geographic mobility can offer new opportunities to previously isolated groups. In India, increasing mobility allows families the chance to strengthen family ties by sending children to traditional homes or expand educational opportunities with options to attend urban schools. Additional economic freedom bolstered by additional capital from remittances can allow children to stay in school longer without having to worry about supporting the core family.Increased geographic mobility and long distance moves do place strains on the household and family. The loss of established strong ties decreases social support and can lower productivity, especially among adolescents. Geographic isolation from previous relationships increases personal dependence on the nuclear family unit and can lead to power unbalances within the household.Migration for work allows the migrants themselves to develop new skills and receive new technical training abroad. Migrants surveyed in Australia and the US have lower rates of continual training than their native born peers as a whole, but are likely to continue gaining technical skills after establishing an initial technical aptitude. The appeal of new educational opportunities to migrants also loses appeal with age; older movers see less of an incentive to spend time to improve upon their existing skills.Increased global mobility has helped to destabilize the prospects of young people looking for reliable work and led to a greater assumption of risk on behalf of young people. Coping strategies push them to put off longterm commitments, decreasing the formation of families and lowering birth rates. Labor market volatility increases the dangers of settling down since incomes are cannot be relied upon long term. Women in the workplace also face more disincentives to having children since they could be more easily replaced if forced to leave their job temporarily.Effects on cultureCultural exchangeIncreased geographic mobility increases the depth and quality of cultural exchange between communities. Travel and cooperation bring people together across cultural divides and facilitate the trade of customs and ideas. New community members bring unique talents and skills that can improve overall services and bring additional opportunity to an area. Additional population "churn" can also increase diversity and lower tensions that would arise otherwise with large concentrations of particular demographic groups. On the other hand, accelerated cultural exchange can dilute existing customs and cause social friction between competing immigrating populations too. Residents in communities with a large percentage of highly mobile occupants also worry about long term social cohesion. Rapid turnover can lead to cultural isolation and sometimes prevents neighbors from building close cohesive relationships.Social networksIncreasing long range personal mobility tends to lead to geographic expansion of an individual's support network. Longdistance connections require more time to visit and minimizes the occurrence of unplanned social interaction. Increased mobility can decrease an individual's attachment to a local community and weaken local support networks. People often turn to information technology to maintain connections across distance, strengthening distance relationships and allowing people to pursue career opportunities despite geographic distance from a partner.GLOBAL CITYA global city, also known as a power city, world city, alpha city, or world center, is a city that serves as a primary node in the global economic network. The concept originates from geography and urban studies, based on the thesis that globalization has created a hierarchy of strategic geographic locations with varying degrees of influence over finance, trade, and culture worldwide. The global city represents the most complex and significant hub within the international system, characterized by links binding it to other cities that have direct, tangible effects on global socioeconomic affairs.The criteria of a global city have varied over time and depending on the source; common features include a high degree of urban development, a large population, the presence of major multinational companies, a significant and globalized financial sector, welldeveloped and internationally linked transportation infrastructure, local or national economic dominance, high quality educational and research institutions, and a globally influential output of ideas, innovations, or cultural products. Quintessential examples, based on most indices and research, include New York City, London, Paris, and Tokyo.ContentsOrigin and terminologyThe term global city was popularized by sociologist Saskia Sassen in her 1991 book, The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo. Prior to that, various other terms were used to describe urban centers with approximate features. The term world city, meaning a city heavily involved in global trade, appeared in a May 1886 description of Liverpool, by The Illustrated London News; British sociologist and geographer Patrick Geddes likewise used the term in 1915. The term megacity entered common use in the late 19th or early 20th century, with the earliest documented example being a publication by the University of Texas in 1904. In the 21st century, the various terms are usually focused on a city's financial power and high technology infrastructure, with other factors becoming less relevant.CriteriaManhattan, the core area of New York City, an Alpha++ global city, where there are several characteristic elements of global cities like worldwide influential economic (New York Stock Exchange) and cultural (Broadway) centers, headquarters of international political organizations (UN headquarters), world renowned museums (the Met Museum, MOMA, Guggenheim Museum), and worldwideknown landmarks (Times Square, Empire State Building, Central Park)Competing groups have developed multiple alternative methods to classify and rank world cities and to distinguish them from nonworld cities. Although there is a consensus on the leading world cities, the chosen criteria affect which other cities are included. Selection criteria may be based on a yardstick value (e.g., if the producerservice sector is the largest sector then city X is a world city) or on an imminent determination (if the producerservice sector of city X is greater than the combined producerservice sectors of N other cities then city X is a world city.) Cities can fall from their respective rankings, as in the case of cities that have become less cosmopolitan and less internationally renowned in the current era.CharacteristicsAlthough criteria are variable and fluid, typical characteristics of world cities include:The most prominent criterion has been providing a variety of international financial services, notably in finance, insurance, real estate, banking, accountancy, and marketing; and their amalgamation of financial headquarters, a stock exchange, and other major financial institutions.Headquarters of numerous multinational corporations.Domination of the trade and economy of a large surrounding areaMajor manufacturing centers with port and container facilitiesConsiderable decisionmaking power daily and at a global levelCenters of new ideas and innovation in business, economics, and culture.Centers of digital and other media and communications for global networksDominance of the national region with great international significanceHigh percentage of residents employed in the services sector and information sectorHighquality educational institutions, including renowned universities and research facilities; and attracting international student attendanceMultifunctional infrastructure offering some of the best legal, medical, and entertainment facilities in the countryHigh diversity in language, culture, religion, and ideologiesRankingsGlobal city rankings are numerous, with one study suggesting as many as 300 global cities worldwide. New York City, London, Tokyo, and Paris are notably the most prominent metropolises mentioned in this respect. They have been ranked in the top four positions in the Global Cities Index and Global Power City Index since both indices' inception in 2008, with New York and London rotating for the first position over the last ten years exclusively in the top two spots.GaWC studyMain article: Globalization and World Cities Research NetworkGlobal city is located in EarthNew YorkNew YorkParisParisLondonLondonTokyoTokyoBeijingBeijingHong KongHong KongSingaporeSingaporeShanghaiShanghaiDubaiDubaiTop global cities per the GaWC 2020 rankings. Shown are "Alpha ++" cities (marked in gold) and "Alpha +" cities (marked in red).vteJon Beaverstock, Richard G. Smith, and Peter J. Taylor established the Globalization and World Cities Research Network (GaWC). A list of world cities in the GaWC Research Bulletin 5 is ranked by their connectivity through four "advanced producer services": accountancy, advertising, banking/finance, and law. The GaWC inventory identifies three levels of global cities and several subranks, although the authors caution that "concern for city rankings operates against the spirit of the GaWC project" .The 2004 rankings added several new indicators while continuing to rank cityeconomics more heavily than political and cultural factors. The 2008 version of the list, similar to the 1998 version, is sorted into categories of Alpha world cities (with four subcategories), Beta world cities (three subcategories), Gamma world cities (three subcategories), and cities with High sufficiency and Sufficiency presence. The cities in the top three classifications in the 2020 edition are as follows:Alpha ++United Kingdom LondonUnited States New York CityAlpha +Hong Kong Hong KongSingapore SingaporeChina ShanghaiChina BeijingUnited Arab Emirates DubaiFrance ParisJapan TokyoAlphaAustralia SydneyUnited States Los AngelesCanada TorontoIndia MumbaiNetherlands AmsterdamItaly MilanGermany FrankfurtMexico Mexico CityBrazil São PauloUnited States ChicagoMalaysia Kuala LumpurSpain MadridRussia MoscowIndonesia JakartaBelgium BrusselsGlobal Cities IndexIn 2008, the American journal Foreign Policy, working with the consulting firm A.T. Kearney and the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, published a ranking of global cities based on consultation with Saskia Sassen, Witold Rybczynski, and others. Foreign Policy noted that "the world's biggest, most interconnected cities help set global agendas, weather transnational dangers, and serve as the hubs of global integration. They are the engines of growth for their countries and the gateways to the resources of their regions." The ranking is based on 27 metrics across five dimensions: business activity, human capital, information exchange, cultural experience, and political engagement. Since 2015, it has been published with a separate index, the Global Cities Outlook, which is a projection of a city's potential based on rate of change in 13 indicators across four dimensions: personal wellbeing, economics, innovation, and governance. The top ranked cities in 2022 are listed below:United States New York CityUnited Kingdom LondonFrance ParisJapan TokyoChina BeijingUnited States Los AngelesUnited States ChicagoAustralia MelbourneSingapore SingaporeHong Kong Hong KongGlobal City Competitiveness IndexIn 2012, the Economist Intelligence Unit (The Economist Group) ranked the competitiveness of global cities according to their demonstrated ability to attract capital, businesses, talent, and visitors.Global Cities InitiativeA study by Brookings Institution conducted in 2016 introduced its own typology, sorting global cities into seven categories: Global Giants, Asian Anchors, Emerging Gateways, Factory China, Knowledge Capitals, American Middleweights, and International Middleweights.The Global Giants classification includes wealthy, extremely large metropolitan areas that are the largest cities in developed nations. They are hubs for financial markets and major corporations, and serve as key nodes in global flows of capital and of talent.United Kingdom LondonUnited States Los AngelesUnited States New York CityJapan Osaka–KobeFrance ParisJapan TokyoGlobal City LabAn analysis report compiled by the Global City Lab of the Global Top 500 Cities was released in New York on 30 December 2021.The top 10 of the "2021 Global Top 500 Cities" by brand value were as follows:United States New York CityUnited Kingdom LondonJapan TokyoFrance ParisSingapore SingaporeAustralia SydneyUnited States Los AngelesCanada TorontoChina ShanghaiHong Kong Hong KongGlobal Economic Power IndexThe Global Economic Power Index reflecting three dimensions of economic power was introduced in 2012. In 2015, the second Global Economic Power Index, a meta list compiled by Richard Florida, was published by The Atlantic (distinct from a namesake list published by the Martin Prosperity Institute), with city composite rank based on five other lists.The top 10 global cities in 2015 were as follows:United States New York CityUnited Kingdom LondonJapan TokyoHong Kong Hong KongFrance ParisSingapore SingaporeUnited States Los AngelesSouth Korea SeoulAustria ViennaSweden Stockholm & Canada TorontoGlobal Financial Centres IndexMain article: Global Financial Centres IndexStrength as a financial center has become one of the preeminent indicators of a global city's ranking. As of March 2023, the cities representing the top ten financial centers according to the Global Financial Centres Index by the think tank China Development Institute and analytics firm Z/Yen were:United States New York CityUnited Kingdom LondonSingapore SingaporeHong Kong Hong KongUnited States San FranciscoUnited States Los AngelesChina ShanghaiUnited States ChicagoUnited States BostonSouth Korea SeoulGlobal Power City IndexThe Tokyobased Institute for Urban Strategies at The Mori Memorial Foundation, issued a comprehensive study of global cities in 2008. They are ranked in six categories: economy, research and development, cultural interaction, livability, environment, and accessibility, with 70 individual indicators among them. The top ten world cities are also ranked by subjective categories, including manager, researcher, artist, visitor and resident.The top 10 cities in the 2022 Global Power City Index were:United Kingdom LondonUnited States New York CityJapan TokyoFrance ParisSingapore SingaporeNetherlands AmsterdamSouth Korea SeoulGermany BerlinAustralia MelbourneChina ShanghaiThe Wealth Report"The Wealth Report" (a global perspective on prime property and wealth) is made by the Londonbased estate agent Knight Frank LLP and the Citi Private Bank. The report includes a "Global Cities Survey", evaluating which cities are considered the most important to the world's HNWIs (highnetworth individuals, having over $25 million of investable assets each). For the Global Cities Survey, Citi Private Bank's wealth advisors, and Knight Frank's luxury property specialists were asked to name the cities that they considered the most important to HNWIs, in regard to "economic activity", "political power", "knowledge and influence", and "quality of life".Most important cities to UHNWIs in 2022:United Kingdom LondonFrance Paris & United States New York CityUnited States Los AngelesJapan TokyoUnited States ChicagoSingapore SingaporeHong Kong Hong KongCanada TorontoChina BeijingThe World's Most Talked About CitiesA study by ING Media, a Londonbased built environment communications firm, has ranked 250 global cities by total online mentions across social media and online news for 2019. It found that a fifth of digital mentions were for Tokyo, New York City, London, and Paris, identifying these as the world's super brands. The Top 10 in the 2019 edition were:Japan TokyoUnited States New York CityUnited Kingdom LondonFrance ParisSpain MadridUnited Arab Emirates DubaiItaly RomeSpain BarcelonaSouth Korea SeoulJapan Osakaglobal city, an urban centre that enjoys significant competitive advantages and that serves as a hub within a globalized economic system. The term has its origins in research on cities carried out during the 1980s, which examined the common characteristics of the world’s most important cities. However, with increased attention being paid to processes of globalization during subsequent years, these world cities came to be known as global cities. Linked with globalization was the idea of spatial reorganization and the hypothesis that cities were becoming key loci within global networks of production, finance, and telecommunications. In some formulations of the global city thesis, then, such cities are seen as the building blocks of globalization. Simultaneously, these cities were becoming newly privileged sites of local politics within the context of a broader project to reconfigure state institutions.Early research on global cities concentrated on key urban centres such as London, New York City, and Tokyo. With time, however, research has been completed on emerging global cities outside of this triad, such as Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Houston, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Paris, São Paulo, Sydney, and Zürich. Such cities are said to knit together to form a global city network serving the requirements of transnational capital across broad swathes of territory.The rise of global cities has been linked with two globalizationrelated trends: first, the expansion of the role of transnational corporations (TNCs) in global production patterns and, second, the decline of mass production along Fordist lines and the concomitant rise of flexible production centred within urban areas. These two trends explain the emergence of networks of certain cities serving the financial and service requirements of TNCs while other cities suffer the consequences of deindustrialization and fail to become “global.” Global cities are those that therefore become effective commandandcoordination posts for TNCs within a globalizing world economy. Such cities have also assumed a governance role at the local scale and within wider configurations of what some commentators have termed the “glocalization” of state institutions. This refers to processes in which certain national state functions of organization and administration have been devolved to the local scale. An example of this would be London. Since the 1980s London has consolidated its position as a global banking and financial centre, delinked from the national economy.The global city thesis poses a challenge to statecentric perspectives on contemporary international political economy because it implies the disembedding of cities from their national territorial base, so that they occupy an extraterritorial space. Global cities, it is suggested, have more interconnectedness with other cities and across a transnational field of action than with the national economy. Global cities are also said to share many of the same characteristics because of their connectedness and shared experiences of globalization. They all exhibit clear signs of deindustrialization. They possess the concentration of financial and service industries within their spatial boundaries, as well as the concentration of large pools of labour. On the downside, many also share experiences of class and ethnic conflict. They often have segmented labour markets in which employees of key industries enjoy wellpaid and consumerist lifestyles while a lower stratum of workers staffs less wellpaid, more precarious, and less attractive positions within the urban economy. It has been further argued that the promotion of global cities runs the risk of economically marginalizing nonurban populations within the national economy.Although global cities are interconnected, embedded as they are in global production and financial networks, they are also locked into competition with one another to command increasing resources and to attract capital. To successfully compete, local governments have been keen to promote their cities as global. Such cities have been marketed as “entrepreneurial” centres, sites of innovation in the knowledge economy, and as being rich with cultural capital. A common strategy has been to stress the multiethnic qualities of a city, for example. This is intended to stress its cosmopolitan and global character and to disassociate the city from its actual territorial, ethnic, or cultural setting. Such cities also regularly compete to host world events of considerable prestige that present further economic opportunities, such as the Olympic Games.There has been some skepticism regarding the global city thesis in its simplest formulation. On a qualitative level, some scholars questioned whether global cities are indeed new phenomena and pointed to the longstanding existence of similar economic centres over time. One can think of Florence during the Renaissance, for example, or Manchester during the Industrial Revolution. Other commentators questioned whether the ascendance of global cities implies state decline along zerosum lines. These skeptics argued that a more complex and interdependent relationship exists between the state and cities under its national jurisdiction. Indeed, national governments can play a proactive role in the promotion of key urban centres as global cities. Correspondingly, it is possible that global cities occupy the forefront position within a hierarchy of cities and local spaces that together constitute the national economy. Such a perspective would appear to transcend a dichotomizing view of global cities and the national state.A global city or world city are a concept which postulates that globalisation can be broken down in terms of strategic geographic locales that see global processes being created, facilitated and enacted. The most complex of these entities is the "global city", whereby the linkages binding a city have a direct and tangible effect on global affairs through more than just socioeconomic means, with influence in terms of culture, or politics. The terminology of "global city", as opposed to megacity, is thought to have been first coined by Saskia Sassen in reference to London, New York and Tokyo in her 1991 work The Global City.General characteristicsIt has been argued that global cities are those sharing the following characteristics:International, firstname familiarity; whereby a city is recognised without the need for a political subdivision. For example. although there are numerous cities and other political entities with the name Paris or variations on it, one would say "Paris", not "Paris, France".Active influence and participation in international events and world affairs; for example, New York City is home to the United Nations headquarters complex and consequently contains a vast majority of the permanent missions to the UN.A fairly large population (the centre of a metropolitan area with a population of at least one million, typically several million).A major international airport (for example, London Heathrow Airport) that serves as an established hub for several international airlines.An advanced transportation system that includes several freeways and/or a large mass transit network offering multiple modes of transportation ( rapid transit, light rail, regional rail, ferry, or bus).In the West, several international cultures and communities (such as a Chinatown, a Little Italy, or other immigrant communities). In other parts of the world, cities which attract large foreign businesses and related expatriate communities; for example, Singapore, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo, and Moscow.International financial institutions, law firms, corporate headquarters (especially conglomerates), and stock exchanges (for example the London Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange or the Tokyo Stock Exchange) that have influence over the world economy.An advanced communications infrastructure on which modern transnational corporations rely, such as fiberoptics, WiFi networks, cellular phone services, and other highspeed lines of communications.Worldrenowned cultural institutions, such as museums and universities.A lively cultural scene, including film festivals (for example the Toronto International Film Festival), premieres, a thriving music or theatre scene (for example, West End theatre and Broadway); an orchestra, an opera company, art galleries, and street performers.Several powerful and influential media outlets with an international reach, such as the BBC, Associated Press, Reuters, The New York Times, The Times, or Agence FrancePresse.A strong sporting community, including major sports facilities, home teams in major league sports, and the ability and historical experience to host international sporting events such as the Olympic Games, Football World Cup, or Grand Slam tennis events.To some, London, New York City, Paris, and Tokyo have been traditionally considered the 'big four' world cities – not coincidentally, they also serve as symbols of global capitalism. However, many people have their own personal lists, and any two lists are likely to differ based on cultural background, values, and experience.In certain countries, the rise of suburbia and the ongoing migration of manufacturing jobs to these countries has led to significant urban decay. Therefore, to boost urban regeneration, tourism, and revenue, the goal of building a "worldclass" city has recently become an obsession with the governments of some midsize cities and their constituents.The phenomenon of worldcity building has also been observed in Buenos Aires, Santiago, Frankfurt, Montréal, Sydney, Mexico City and Toronto: each of these cities has emerged as large and influential.GaWC Inventory of World Cities (1999 ion)An attempt to define and categorise world cities was made in 1999 by the Globalization and World Cities Study Group and Network (GaWC), based primarily at Loughborough University in Loughborough, Leicestershire, England. The roster was outlined in the GaWC Research Bulletin 5 and ranked cities based on provision of "advanced producer services" such as accountancy, advertising, finance and law, by international corporations. The GaWC inventory identifies three levels of world cities and several subranks.Note that this roster generally denotes cities in which there are offices of certain multinational companies providing financial and consulting services rather than other cultural, political, and economic centres. There is a schematic map of GaWC cities at their website.Alpha world cities (full service world cities)12 points: London, New York, Paris, Tokyo10 points: Chicago, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Los Angeles, Milan, SingaporeRefer to Official GaWC List.Beta world cities (major world cities)9 points: San Francisco, Sydney, Toronto, Zürich8 points: Brussels, Madrid, Mexico City, São Paulo7 points: Moscow, SeoulGamma world cities (minor world cities)6 points: Amsterdam, Boston, Caracas, Dallas, Düsseldorf, Geneva, Houston, Jakarta, Johannesburg, Melbourne, Osaka, Prague, Santiago, Taipei, Washington5 points: Bangkok, Beijing, Montreal, Rome, Stockholm, Warsaw4 points: Atlanta, Barcelona, Berlin, Budapest, Buenos Aires, Copenhagen, Hamburg, Istanbul, Kuala Lumpur, Manila, Miami, Minneapolis, Munich, ShanghaiEvidence of world city formationStrong evidence3 points: Athens, Auckland, Dublin, Helsinki, Luxembourg, Lyon, Mumbai, New Delhi, Philadelphia, Rio de Janeiro, Tel Aviv, ViennaSome evidence2 points: Abu Dhabi, Almaty, Birmingham (UK), Bogotá, Bratislava, Brisbane, Bucharest, Cairo, Cleveland, Cologne, Detroit, Dubai, Ho Chi Minh City, Kiev, Lima, Lisbon, Manchester, Montevideo, Oslo, Riyadh, Rotterdam, Seattle, Strasbourg, Stuttgart, The Hague, VancouverMinimal evidence1 point: Adelaide, Antwerp, Aarhus, Baltimore, Bangalore, Bologna, Brasília, Calgary, Cape Town, Colombo, Columbus, Dresden, Edinburgh, Genoa, Glasgow, Gothenburg, Guangzhou, Hanoi, Kansas City, Leeds, Lille, Marseille, Richmond, St. Petersburg, Tashkent, Tehran, Tijuana, Turin, Utrecht, WellingtonGaWC Leading World Cities (2004 ion)An attempt to redefine and recategorise leading world cities was made by PJ Taylor at GaWC in 2004.This ranking list is referred to as the Official GaWC List.Global CitiesWell rounded global citiesVery large contribution: London and New York City.Smaller contribution and with cultural bias: Los Angeles, Paris and San Francisco.Incipient global cities: Amsterdam, Boston, Chicago, Madrid, Milan, Moscow, Toronto.Global niche cities  specialised global contributionsEconomic: Hong Kong, Singapore, and Tokyo.Political and social: Brussels, Geneva, Strasbourg and Washington.World CitiesSubnet articulator citiesCultural: Berlin, Copenhagen, Melbourne, Munich, Oslo, Rome, Stockholm.Political: Bangkok, Beijing, Vienna.Social: Manila, Nairobi, Ottawa.Worldwide leading citiesPrimarily economic global contributions: Frankfurt, Miami, Munich, Osaka, Singapore, Sydney, ZurichPrimarily noneconomic global contributions: Abidjan, Addis Ababa, Atlanta, Basle, Barcelona, Cairo, Denver, Harare, Lyon, Manila, Mexico City, Mumbai, New Delhi, Shanghai.Global Cities Conference 2006This conference took place at Liverpool Hope University, starting on 29 June 2006 and chaired by Dr. Lawrence Phillips of the Global Cities Conference at the university. Its aim was to establish what is meant by a 'global city', by examining criteria such as images, narratives, economics, planning and people's experiences. It also looked at whether the perceived 'big four' — London, Paris, New York, and Tokyo — are in fact the only candidates for global city status, or if they should in fact be joined by fastgrowing cities in Asia or the developing world.Other criteriaThe GaWC list is based on specific criteria and, thus, may not include other cities of global significance or elsewhere on the spectrum. For example, cities with the following:Large populations, proper and agglomeratedDiverse demographic constituenciesBased on various indicators:Population, habitat, mobility, and urbanisationSignificant financial capacity/output:city/regional GDPStock market indices/market capitalisationHeadquarters for multinational corporationsFinancial service provision; e.g., banks, accountancyEmploymentBased on quality of life or city developmentBased on costs of livingBased on personal wealth; e.g., number of billionairesSignificant transport infrastructure:Airports with significant passenger traffic or cargo movementsExtensive and popular mass transit systemsProminent rail usageRoad vehicle usageMajor seaportsSignificant technological capabilities/infrastructure:Prominent skylines/skyscrapersSignificant institutions:Educational institutions; e.g., universities, international student attendanceResearch facilitiesHealth facilities; e.g. hospitals, medical laboratoriesSites of pilgrimage for world religionsHosting headquarters for international organizationsCities containing UNESCO World Heritage Sites of historical and cultural significanceHigh endowments of cultural facilities:Notable museums and galleriesNotable operaNotable orchestrasNotable film centres and film festivalsNotable theatre centresSites of major international sports events; e.g., Olympic Games sitesTourism throughput:VisitorsEconomyEventsSite or subject in Arts and MediaTV,Film,VideoGames,MusicLiterature,Magazines,Articles,DocumentaryHistoric Reference,ShowcaseGLOBAL DEMOGRAPHYGlobal Demography: Fact, Force and FutureDavid E Bloom and David CanningIn Conference 2006AbstractIn the past 50 years, the world accelerated its transition out of longterm demographic stability. As infant and child mortality rates fell, populations began to soar. In most countries, this growth led to falling fertility rates. Although fertility has fallen, the population continues to increase because of population momentum; it will eventually level off. In the meantime, demographic change has created a ‘bulge’ generation, which today appears in many countries as a large workingage population. This cohort will eventually become a large elderly population, in both developed and developing countries. Population growth has been the subject of great debate among economists and demographers. Until recently, most have agreed on a middle ground, in which population growth per se has no effect on economic growth. New evidence suggests that changes in the age structure of populations – in particular, a rising ratio of workingage to nonworkingage individuals – leads to the possibility of more rapid economic growth, via both accounting and behavioural effects. The experiences of east Asia, Ireland and subSaharan Africa all serve as evidence of the effect of demographic change on economic growth (or lack thereof). Both internal migration (from rural to urban areas) and international migration complicate this picture. The overall implications of population growth for policy lie in the imperative for investments in health and education, and for sound policies related to labour, trade and retirement. Understanding future trends is essential for the development of good policy. Demographic projections can be quite reliable, but huge uncertainties – in the realms of health, changes in human life span, scientific advances, migration, global warming and wars – make overall predictions extremely uncertain.1. IntroductionFor much of human history, demographic patterns were reasonably stable; human populations grew slowly, and the age structures, birth rates, and death rates of populations changed only gradually. Epidemics and pandemics had huge effects on populations, but these effects were shortlived and had little bearing on longterm trends.In the past 50 years, however, this trend of longterm stability has given way to the biggest demographic upheaval in history, an upheaval that is still running its course. In the developed world, a sharp postwar rise in fertility was followed by an equally sharp fall. These changes in fertility transformed age structures through the creation of a ‘baby boom’ generation. The ageing of this generation and continued declines in fertility and oldage mortality are shifting the population balance in developed countries from young to old. In the meantime, the developing world has experienced a population explosion, the result of improved nutrition, public health infrastructure and medical care.Even if high fertility – the main underlying cause of rapid population growth – were to suddenly adjust to the longrun replacement level of 2.1 children per woman, humanity would continue to experience demographic change for some time. The rapid increase in the global population over the past few decades has resulted in large numbers of people of childbearing age. This creates ‘population momentum’, in which the populations of most countries, even those with falling birth rates, will grow for many years to come. This is particularly true of developing countries.Population changes have potentially huge implications for the pace and progress of economic development. For example, an increasing proportion of elderly may act as a drag on economic growth where smaller working populations must provide for a larger number of nonworking dependents. Rising life expectancy can also bolster an economy by creating a greater incentive to save and to invest in education, thereby boosting the financial capital on which investors draw and the human capital that strengthens economies. Where a country has experienced a baby boom followed by a decline in fertility, the relative size of the workforce is increased. Countries that are able to absorb the baby boom generation into productive employment can experience a rapid increase in economic growth. Countries unable to take advantage of this opportunity run the risk of creating large, chronically underemployed and increasingly restive workingage populations.2. Global Demographic Trends and PatternsThe global population, which stood at just over 2 billion in 1950, is 6.5 billion today. The world is currently gaining new inhabitants at a rate of 76 million people a year (representing the difference, in 2005, between 134 million births and 58 million deaths). Although this growth is slowing, middleground projections suggest the world will have 9.1 billion inhabitants by 2050, when growth will be approximately 34 million a year.These past and projected additions to world population have been, and will increasingly be, distributed unevenly across the world. Today, 95 per cent of population growth occurs in developing countries (see Figure 1). The population of the world's 50 leastdeveloped countries is expected to more than double by the middle of this century, with several poor countries tripling their population over the period. By contrast, the population of the developed world is expected to remain steady at around 1.2 billion, with population declines in some wealthy countries.Figure 1: World PopulationThe disparity in population growth between developed and developing countries reflects the existence of considerable heterogeneity in birth, death and migration processes, both over time and across national populations, races and ethnic groups. The disparity has coincided with changes in the agegroup composition of populations. An overview of these factors illuminates the mechanisms of global population growth and change.2.1 Crude birth and death ratesOne of the simplest ways to consider population growth is through crude birth and death rates. These are the number of births and deaths per 1,000 people. On a worldwide basis, the difference between these rates is the rate of population growth. Within regions or countries, population growth is also affected by emigration and immigration. Figure 2 shows that in both developed and developing regions the crude birth rate has decreased by about half over the past 50 years. This implies a much greater absolute reduction in developing regions. The net result of these reductions is a current crude birth rate in developing regions that is similar to that of the developed regions 50 years ago.Figure 2: Crude Birth RateAs Figure 3 shows, crude death rates follow a different pattern. The reduction in mortality in developing countries since 1950 has been very rapid – so rapid that the crude death rate in developing countries is now lower than in developed countries. The gradual rise in the crude death rate in developed countries results from the combination of relatively steady infant and child mortality rates and rising death rates due to an ageing population. The figure indicates that a similar rise in the death rate will begin in developing countries in a couple of decades.Figure 3: Crude Death RateFigure 4 demonstrates the combined effect of crude birth and death rates on population growth rates, as modified by migration (primarily from developing to developed regions).Figure 4: Population Growth Rate2.2 Total fertility rateThe total fertility rate, that is the number of children born per woman, fell from about 5 in 1950 to a little over 2.5 in 2005 (see Figure 5). This number is projected to fall to about 2 by 2050. This decrease is attributable largely to changes in fertility in the developing world. In 1950, the total fertility rate among developed countries was already below 3 children per woman; the rate among developing countries was over 6. Fertility in the latter is now below 3 children per woman. The fertility decline in lowincome countries can be ascribed to a number of factors, including declines in infant mortality rates, greater levels of female education and increased labour market opportunities for women, and the provision of family planning services.Figure 5: Total Fertility Rate2.3 Infant and child mortality declineThe developing world has seen significant reductions in infant and child mortality over the past 50 years (see Figure 6). Infant mortality (death prior to age 1) in developing countries has dropped from 180 to about 57 deaths per 1,000 live births. It is projected to decline further to fewer than 30 deaths per 1,000 live births by 2050. The past halfcentury's gains resulted primarily from improved nutrition, public health interventions related to water and sanitation, and medical advances such as the use of vaccines and antibiotics. Infant mortality rates in the developed world have been, and will continue to be, significantly lower than those in the developing world. Developed countries have seen infant mortality decline from 59 to 7 deaths per 1,000 live births since 1950, and this is projected to decline further still, to 4 by 2050. Child mortality (death prior to age 5) has also fallen, in both developed and developing countries.Figure 6: Infant Mortality RateFigure 7 addresses a widely discussed issue relevant to infant and child mortality: ‘missing women’. Perhaps because of the selective abortion of female foetuses or because of female infanticide, there is a severe exaggeration in a few countries of the usual pattern of boys aged 0–4 outnumbering young girls of the same ages.Figure 7: Number of Countries in which Males per 100 Females is in a Given Range, Age 0–42.4 Life expectancy and longevityFor the world as a whole, life expectancy increased from 47 years in 1950–1955 to 65 years in 2000–2005. It is projected to rise to 75 years by the middle of this century, with considerable disparities between the wealthy developed countries, at 82 years, and the lessdeveloped countries, at 74 years (see Figure 8). As a result of the global decline in fertility, and because people are living longer, median age is rising (see Figure 9). The proportion of the elderly in the total population is rising sharply. The number of people over the age of 60, currently around half the number of those aged 15–24, is expected to reach 1 billion (overtaking the 15–24 age group) by 2020. It is projected to reach almost 2 billion by 2050. The proportion of individuals aged 80 or over is projected to rise from 1 per cent to 4 per cent of the global population by 2050. (Figure 10 shows the history and projections for the actual number of individuals aged 80 or above.) Population ageing is occurring in both developed and developing countries, although more rapidly in the former. In the developed world, the proportion of people aged 60 or over will increase from 20 to 32 per cent by 2050. In the developing world, it will rise from 8 to 20 per cent. There are gender differences in life expectancy. Figure 11 shows that life expectancy for women tends to be around 4 to 6 years longer than for men, although there is considerable variation across countries.Figure 8: Life ExpectancyFigure 9: Median AgeFigure 10: Number of People Aged 80 or AboveFigure 11: Number of Countries in which Female Longevity Exceeds that of Males by a Given Range of YearsThe positive correlation between life expectancy and income, which was first discussed in detail by Preston (1975), is one of the most central relationships in the fields of international health and development. Preston observed the strong, positive relationship between national income levels and life expectancy in poorer countries, though the relationship is nonlinear as life expectancy levels in richer countries are less sensitive to variations in average income. Preston also noted that life expectancy is increasing over time at all income levels. Although the basic facts set out by Preston are generally accepted, the mechanisms that lie behind the relationships and the policy implications we can draw from them are still disputed. Bloom and Canning (forthcoming) discuss Preston's paper in detail.2.5 Age distribution: workingage populationBaby booms have altered the demographic landscape in many countries. As the experiences of several regions during the past century show, an initial fall in mortality rates creates a boom generation because high survival rates lead to more people at young ages than in earlier generations. Fertility rates fall subsequently, as parents realise they do not need to produce as many children to reach their desired family size, or as desired family size diminishes for other reasons. When fertility falls and the baby boom stops, the age structure of the population then shows a ‘bulge’ – the babyboomage cohort – created by the nonsynchronous falls in mortality and fertility. As this cohort works its way through the age structure of the population, it represents a share of the population larger than the share represented by the cohorts that precede or follow it (see Figure 12).Figure 12: Ratio of Workingage to Nonworkingage PopulationThe baby boom creates particular challenges and opportunities for countries. In its youth, it is a large cohort to be educated. Jimenez and Murthi (2006), in addressing the challenges of a large youth cohort (ages 12–24), stress the importance for longterm economic growth of investing in education and health of the young and the need to ease entry into the labour market for this group. Once of age to enter the labour force, the baby boom generation represents an unusually large workingage (approximately ages 15–64) population, which offers the prospect of a ‘demographic dividend’. Lee and Mason (2006) describe two aspects of the demographic dividend: falling fertility, leading to more workers per capita and therefore potentially more resources to devote to development and to family welfare, and extra savings generated when people expect a longer retirement period. (See also Bloom, Canning and Sevilla 2002.)2.6 MigrationMigration also alters population patterns. Globally, 191 million people live in countries other than the one in which they were born. On average, during the next 45 years, the United Nations estimates that over 2.2 million individuals will migrate annually from developing to developed countries (see Figure 13). (The UN estimates regarding future migration are not very informative, a reflection of the inherent difficulty of constructing accurate projections of migration flows.) According to the UN Population Division, the United States will receive by far the highest number of immigrants (1.1 million a year), and China, Mexico, India, the Philippines and Indonesia will be the main sources of emigrants.Figure 13: Number of Migrants from Lessdeveloped to Moredeveloped CountriesSeveral factors affect migration from developing to developed countries. A significant number of workingage people in developing countries are underemployed relative to the opportunities they perceive in developed countries. At the same time, developed countries face a declining share of workingage people and a growing number of elderly who need care, creating more opportunities for immigrants. Because migrants are disproportionately of working age, migration can affect the age distribution in both sending and receiving countries. The ratio of workers to dependents will tend to rise more slowly in sending countries and decline more slowly in receiving countries than it otherwise would. Williamson (2006) provides an economic explanation of the emigration lifecycle. First, people are too poor to emigrate; this is the ‘migration poverty trap’. As wealth increases and demographic booms begin, more people are able to emigrate and more are driven to emigrate. Emigration later subsides in response to remittances, industrialisation, conditions improving at home, and there being relatively fewer workers. In the case of Europe, as transport and industrialisation spread within the continent, the poorer countries joined the richer ones in sending migrants to the Americas.2.7 UrbanisationIn both developed and developing countries, there has been a huge movement from rural to urban areas since 1950 (see Figure 14). Lessdeveloped regions, in aggregate, have seen their population shift from 18 per cent urban in 1950 to 44 per cent in 2006, while the corresponding figures for developed countries are 52 per cent to 75 per cent. This move toward urban areas – and the concomitant urbanisation of areas that were formerly periurban or rural – is consistent with the shift that nearly all countries have experienced in moving from agricultural economies to industrial and servicebased economies.Figure 14: Percentage of Population Living in Urban AreasThe existence and growth of megacities (that is, those with 10 million or more residents) is a late20th century phenomenon that has created new problems. There were 20 such cities in 2003, 15 in developing countries. Tokyo is by far the largest, with 35 million people, followed by (in descending order) Mexico City, New York, São Paulo and Mumbai (all with 17 to 19 million residents). All cities allow for economies of scale and provide a broad mix of people and activities, making them centres of economic growth and activity. These characteristics account, in some measure, for their attractiveness. However, as continued movement to urban areas leads to megacities, these factors seem to be countered in part by problems that arise in the areas of transportation, housing, air pollution and waste management. The conditions in megacities may also exacerbate socioeconomic disparities.3. The Effect on Economies – Historical BackgroundDemographic change is consequential with respect to economic and social development. The economic consequences of population growth, in particular, have long been the subject of debate.It was first believed that population growth would lead to the exhaustion of resources. In 1798, Thomas Malthus, perhaps the first of the ‘population pessimists’, argued that the world's resources would be unable to keep pace with population growth. Food production would expand more slowly than population, and many would lose out in the competition for food. Such thinking held sway well into the 20th century. In 1968, Paul Ehrlich predicted: ‘The battle … is over. In the 1970s … hundreds of millions of people are going to starve to death’ (Ehrlich 1968, p xi). In the early 1970s, studies by the US National Academy of Sciences and the United Nations also predicted negative effects of population growth.Not until the late 20th century did other arguments become popular. In the last 30 years of the 20th century, per capita incomes rose by twothirds as global population doubled. This prompted some to ask whether, far from being a hindrance to growth, population expansion might in fact assist it. In the 1960s, it was proposed that population growth aided economic development by spurring technological and institutional innovation and increasing the supply of human ingenuity. Simon Kuznets (1967), Julian Simon (1981) and Ester Boserup (1981) were the leaders among the ‘population optimists’. Kuznets argued that larger societies can take advantage of economies of scale and are betterequipped for trade. Simon showed that the prices of natural resources decline as growing populations, complete with a greater stock of human ingenuity, make the technological improvements necessary to respond to increasing demand. Boserup presented compelling historical evidence of the pressure that population growth puts on societies to create new solutions in the face of resource constraints. The Green Revolution, for example, where new, highyield crops dramatically increased food production in much of the developing world, occurred in part as a response to population growth. Although the optimists did not believe population growth would automatically lead to economic advances, they saw that favourable policies could help translate increases in population into greater wealth.Population neutralism became the predominant school of thought in the 1980s and 1990s. Advocates of this position (Bloom and Freeman 1986; Kelley 1988) took the optimists' observation that the consequences of population growth depended largely on the policy environment a step further. Population neutralism was based on empirical research showing little correlation between the growth rate of income per capita and the rate of population growth. In other words, population growth by itself has no effect on economic performance. Other factors such as openness to trade, educational attainment and the quality of institutions determine whether economic progress can keep pace with population expansion. Although fastgrowing populations tend to experience slower economic growth, when these other factors are taken into account, the negative impact of population expansion disappears.Recently, population neutralism is giving way to a more finegrained view of the effects of population dynamics in which demographic change does affect economic development. Economists and demographers now point to both the accounting effects and the behavioural effects of changes in population size and structure.4. The Effect on Economies – Some New Thinking4.1 Accounting effectsSome of the effects of population change on economic growth result from ‘accounting’ effects. Accounting effects assume constant behaviour – in marriage, labour participation or other decisions – within age and other demographic groups, but allow for changes in the relative size of those groups to influence overall outcomes. For example, holding age and sexspecific labour force participation rates constant, we can see how a change in the age structure affects total labour supply.As a country's baby boom generation ages, for a time it constitutes a large cohort of workingage individuals and, later, a large cohort of elderly people. The span of years represented by the boom generation (which determines how quickly this cohort moves through the age structure) and the size of the population bulge vary greatly from one country to another. But in all circumstances, there are reasons to think that a very unstable age structure has economic consequences. A historically high proportion of workingage individuals in a population means that, potentially, production can increase relative to consumption, and with more workers per capita, GDP per capita can receive a boost.Lifecycle patterns in savings also come into play as a population's age structure changes. People save more during their workingage years. If the workingage cohort is especially large compared to other age groups, savings per capita will increase.4.2 Behavioural effectsDeclining rates of adult mortality and the movement of large cohorts through the global population pyramid will lead to a massive expansion in the proportion of elderly in the world population. Some simple economic projections show catastrophic effects of this ageing. These projections tend to be based on an ‘accounting’ approach, which assumes that agespecific behaviour remains unchanged and ignores the potentially significant effects of behavioural change.The ageing of the baby boom generation potentially promotes labour shortages, creating upward pressure on wages and downward pressure on the real incomes of retirees. It is likely that workers will adjust their behaviour in response to these pressures, resulting in increased labour force participation, longer working lives and possibly the immigration of workers from developing countries. In addition, Bloom, Canning and Moore (2004) find that health and longevity improvements tend, in theory, to increase individuals' desired age of retirement. In practice, however, mandatory retirement and other disincentives to work at older ages lead people to anticipate longer periods of retirement rather than longer working lives (Bloom, Canning, Moore et al 2006; Bloom et al, forthcoming). In response, national saving rates tend to rise (Bloom, Canning and Graham 2003).Child mortality declines can also have behavioural effects, particularly for women, who are likely to be the primary caregivers for children. When fertility has fallen in response to a decrease in child mortality, more women are able to participate in the workforce, further boosting the labour supply.5. Empirical EvidenceDemographic change is absent from many macroeconomic analyses that aim to explain crosscountry differences in economic growth and poverty reduction. Yet several empirical studies show the importance of demographics in understanding economic development.5.1 East Asia's baby boomEast Asia's remarkable economic growth in the past halfcentury coincided closely with demographic change in the region. As infant mortality fell from 181 to 34 per 1,000 births between 1950 and 2000, fertility fell from around 6 to 2 children per woman. The lag between falls in mortality and fertility created a baby boom generation. Between 1965 and 1990, the region's workingage population grew nearly four times faster than the dependent population. Several studies have estimated that this demographic shift was responsible for onethird of east Asia's economic growth during the period (that is, the ‘demographic dividend’). (See Bloom and Williamson 1998; Bloom, Canning and Malaney 2000.)5.2 Labour supply and the Celtic tigerFrom 1960 to 1990, the growth rate of income per capita in Ireland was approximately 3.5 per cent per annum. In the 1990s, it jumped to 5.8 per cent, well in excess of any other European economy. Demographic change contributed to the country's economic surge. In the decade following the legalisation of contraceptives in 1979, Ireland saw a sharp fall in the crude birth rate. This led to decreasing youth dependency and a rise in the workingage share of the total population. By the mid 1990s, the dependency burden in Ireland had dropped to a level below that in the United Kingdom.Two additional demographybased factors in Ireland helped fuel economic growth by increasing labour supply per capita. First, although male labour force participation rates remained fairly static, the period from 1980 to 2000 saw a substantial increase in female labour force participation rates, particularly in the 25–40 yearold age group. Although one would expect rapid economic growth to encourage female labour participation, it seems likely that some of the increase can be attributed to the availability of contraception and women's increased freedom to choose between working and rearing children. Second, Ireland historically had high levels of outward migration of young adults (around 1 per cent of the population per year), because its economy was unable to absorb the large inflows of young workers created by its high fertility rate. The loss of these young workers exacerbated the problem of a high youthdependency rate. The decline in youthcohort sizes and rapid economic growth of the 1990s led to a reversal of this flow, resulting in net inmigration of workers, made up partly of return migrants and also, for the first time, substantial numbers of foreign immigrants (see Bloom and Canning 2003).5.3 Continued high fertility in subSaharan AfricaDemographic change of a very different type can account for slow economic development. Much of subSaharan Africa remains stalled at the first stage of a demographic transition. Fertility rates actually increased a bit during the 1950s and through the 1970s and only recently have begun a slow fall. As swollen youth cohorts have entered the labour force, an inadequate economic policy environment in most countries has prevented many young people from engaging in productive employment. Large dependent populations (in this case, of children) have kept the proportion of workingage people in the total population low, making it more difficult for these economies to rise out of poverty (see Bloom and Sachs 1998).6. Policy ImplicationsRapid and significant demographic change places new demands on national and international policymaking. Transitions from high mortality and fertility to low mortality and fertility can be beneficial to economies as large babyboom cohorts enter the workforce and save for retirement. Rising longevity also affects the incentives to save for old age, which can affect investment, international capital flows and interest rates.The ability of countries to realise the potential benefits of the demographic transition and to mitigate the negative effects of ageing depends crucially on the policy and institutional environment. Attention to the following areas is likely to be key in developing effective policy to deal with the effects of demographic change.6.1 HealthRecent evidence indicates that good health may be an important factor in economic development (see Bloom, Canning and Sevilla 2004). Health improvements – especially among infants and children – often lead to declines in fertility. Focusing on the diseases of childhood can therefore increase the likelihood of creating a boom generation and the positive economic effects a boom can generate (see Bloom, Canning and Weston 2005). Countries wishing to accelerate fertility declines may benefit from improving access to family planning services and education about fertility decisions.6.2 EducationWorkers are better able to contribute to economic growth if they have received an effective education. East Asia capitalised on its baby boom generation by providing highquality education, including both general schooling and technical skills, which equipped them as workers to meet the demands of an everchanging labour market. Ireland also gained from its baby boom by introducing free secondary schooling and expanding tertiary education.6.3 Labour market institutionsRestrictive labour laws can limit a country's ability to benefit from demographic change, particularly where these laws make it difficult to hire and fire workers or to work parttime. Restrictions on immigration are also of concern, as they hold down the labour supply. Immigration is a political hot potato in many countries, but economic incentives to lower barriers to immigration are likely to grow stronger as populations in developed countries age. International outsourcing, another controversial subject, may also be an increasingly important means of meeting the demand for labour.6.4 TradeOne means by which eastAsian countries provided productive opportunities to their baby boom cohorts was by carefully opening up to international trade. The opportunity to export provides an outlet for the product of a large cohort. Bloom and Canning (2004) found that open economies benefit much more from demographic change than the average, and that closed economies do not derive any statistically significant benefit from changes in the age structure.6.5 RetirementPopulation ageing requires increased savings to finance longer retirements (especially if governments maintain current policies that discourage the conversion of greater longevity into longer working lives). This will affect financial markets, rates of return and investment. As more people move into old age, health care costs are likely to spiral upward, with the expansion of health care systems and growth in longterm care for the elderly. (However, Bryant and Sonerson (2006) caution that an ageing population is not the main driver of rising expenditures on health, showing that nondemographic factors are more substantial drivers of rising health expenditures than demographic ones.) As nontradable, labourintensive sectors with a low rate of technical progress, health care and elder care may affect the structure of the economy and potentially slow measured growth. Existing social security systems may hamper the ability of individuals to contribute to the financing of their retirement, as many of these systems penalise individuals who work beyond a fixed retirement age. As Turner (2006) explains, demographic factors play a central role in determining the potential viability of all pension systems, both fully funded and payasyougo plans. Recent work in Australia by Kulish, Smith and Kent (2006) suggests that changes in fertility and longevity, functioning jointly, tend to increase the ratio of capital to labour inputs, and that, on average, people would still choose to spend a similar portion of their lives in retirement as before these changes.7. Thinking Far Ahead: Whither the Human Life Span?A discussion that pertains centrally to increases in life expectancy and that touches on retirement naturally leads to the question of the human life span. How long are people likely to live in the coming decades, and are the anticipated changes likely to bring new issues to the fore?In most of the world, life expectancy has risen sharply during the past two centuries. Children born today can expect to live for many decades longer than their ancestors born in the 19th or early 20th centuries. In Japan, life expectancy at birth is now 82 years, and other regions have also made great progress as medical and public health advances, improved nutrition and behavioural changes encouraged by improved education have combined to reduce the risk of death at all ages.Fries (1983) suggests that the human life span is more or less fixed at a certain age and unlikely to change over time. According to this view, an accumulation of inherited diseases express themselves in the postreproductive years, during which individuals' survival confers no evolutionary benefit on their descendants, effectively maintaining a ceiling on life expectancy. Ronald Lee (2003), however, proposes an evolutionary mechanism through which the human life span may increase. He argues, essentially, that the children of individuals who are genetically disposed to long life benefit from their parents' and grandparents' longevity, mainly through intergenerational transfers (for example, time spent nurturing children). This mechanism has acted against the accumulation of inherited diseases at the older ages and has tended to shape the human genome in a manner that is likely to be more responsive to the lifeprolonging efforts of modern science.Whether or not the human life span changes over time may have important implications for societies and economies. If it remains steady at around 85 years, the fraction of people living beyond that age is unlikely to grow significantly or rapidly. If it increases, on the other hand, societies may face a number of new challenges. In one plausible scenario, health care costs will rise with increasing numbers of very old individuals; pension and social security payments will come under increasing pressure; the dependency ratio will shift, leaving relatively smaller workingage populations with an increased number of elderly dependents to support; and societies will have to adapt to the social and cultural impacts of the new demographic realities. But even if life spans increase significantly, it is possible that most of these predictions will not come to pass. Fries discusses a phenomenon known as ‘the compression of morbidity’ – meaning that the illnesses associated with old age may come to arise sufficiently later in life so that, even with increased life spans, the elderly may have fewer years during which they are dependent on workingage people. If this is correct, the predictions above will be incorrect, particularly if people choose to retire later or save more early in life.Continuing increases in life expectancy in lowmortality populations have led some demographers to forecast further gains. They believe that scientific advances will continue to combine with behavioural changes to yield further life expectancy gains in the future. Manton, Stallard and Tolley (1991), for example, estimate that populations with extremely healthy lifestyles – that is, with an absence or nearabsence of risk factors such as smoking, alcohol and obesity, and the presence of healthpromoting behaviours such as a healthy diet and exercise – could achieve a life expectancy of between 95 and 100 years. Oeppen and Vaupel (2002) found that death rates among the very old in Sweden and throughout the industrial world fell substantially in the last century, and at an accelerating pace, reflecting bona fide lifespan improvements. They forecast that life expectancy at birth in lowmortality countries will rise to 100 years by 2060. Along the same lines, Preston (1996) observes that 60 per cent of the life expectancy increase in the United States since 1950 was due to mortality declines in people over the age of 50. Li and Lee (2005) estimate that life expectancy in the United States will rise from a 1996 figure of 76.3 to 84.9 by 2050, with that in Japan rising from 80.5 to 88.1.Others have reached different conclusions. Olshansky and Carnes (1994) question the models used by demographers which underpin predictions that life expectancy will increase dramatically; Olshansky, Carnes and Désesquelles (2001) predict that life expectancy at birth will not surpass 85 years. Death rates, they argue, would not fall sufficiently for life expectancy to rise rapidly, and earlier increases were driven largely by dramatic reductions in infant and child mortality, which could not recur. Perhaps more importantly, they see no reason why the future should necessarily mirror the past – new threats to health such as influenza pandemics, antibiotic resistance and obesity (discussed subsequently in Preston 2005) could reverse gains made in recent decades; technological improvements could stall and the drugs needed to counter the diseases of ageing might not be found; and environmental disasters, economic collapse or war could derail health systems at the same time as weakening individuals' ability to protect their own health.The debate continues, and many questions remain unanswered. What will be the effect on the human life span of advances in genetics? Will antiageing technologies emerge to make the human body more robust for longer? Will wealthy societies succumb to damaging obesity epidemics or to new infectious diseases such as avian flu? Will economic meltdown take away the wealth that has contributed so much to improvements in health? Or will wars result in massive premature mortality, and thereby render the average life span a far less compelling issue?8. Looking to the FutureWhat can we expect in the next halfcentury? Based on the indicators that are available, we can make a few points.All signs suggest that there will be continued but slowing population growth. This continued growth will result in the addition of roughly 3 billion people to the world population, before it stabilises around 2050 at about 9 billion. Managing this increase will be an enormous challenge, and the economic consequences of failing to do so could be severe.The world's population is ageing, and the growth in the sheer number of elderly people will be huge. The United Nations predicts that 31 per cent of China's population in 2050 – 432 million people – will be aged 60 or over. The corresponding figures for India are 21 per cent and 330 million (see Figure 15). No longer can ageing be thought of as a developedworld phenomenon. (Further comparison of China and India's demographic development as it has affected their economic development can be found in Bloom, Canning, Hu et al 2006.)Figure 15: Growth of Elderly Population in China and IndiaInternational migration will continue, but the extent is unclear. The pressures that encourage people to migrate – above all the lure of greater economic wellbeing in the developed countries – will undoubtedly persist, but the strength of countervailing policy restrictions that could substantially staunch the flow of migrants is impossible to predict.Urbanisation will continue, but here, too, the pace is impossible to predict. Greater economic opportunities in the cities will surely continue to attract migrants from rural areas, but environmental and social problems may stymie growth.Although demographic changes are, for the most part, easier to predict than economic changes, the bigpicture outlook is nonetheless unclear. The uncertainties are similar to those we cited regarding possible changes in the human life span. Will an outbreak of avian flu or another disease become pandemic, killing many millions and decimating economies? What happens if these diseases are, or become, resistant to existing drugs? Conversely, scientific advances in areas such as genomics, contraceptive methods, or vaccines for diseases such as AIDS or malaria could save and improve millions of lives. Global warming and other environmental changes, or largescale war, could completely alter the context of demographic and economic predictions. Millions of refugees, from any cause, could lead demographic predictions to be far off the mark, and could, of course, lead to upheavals that would dwarf the importance of the analysis offered here.Appendix A: Notes on Source, Country Groups, Coverage Period, Definitions and AssumptionsSourceAll data and charts are taken directly from, or calculated on the basis of UN Population Division (2005). See <http://www.un.org/esa/population/publications/WPP2004/2004EnglishES.pdf> for the Executive Summary of UN Population Division (2005) (including the assumptions).Definition of country groupsThe UN defines ‘moredeveloped regions’ as ‘all regions of Europe plus Northern America, Australia/New Zealand and Japan’. ‘Lessdeveloped regions’ means ‘all regions of Africa, Asia (excluding Japan), Latin America and the Caribbean plus Melanesia, Micronesia and Polynesia’.The list of ‘moredeveloped’ countries consists of the following: Albania, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Channel Islands, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, TFYR Macedonia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom and the United States. All other countries are classified by the UN as ‘lessdeveloped’.Coverage periodThe source presents data for 1950–2050. The United Nations presents some data for exact years (1950, 1955, etc) and other data for fiveyear periods (1950–55, 1955–60, etc). For the former, projections are made for 2010–2050; for the latter, for 2005–2010 to 2045–2050. For urban population shares, projections extend only to 2030. In each case, 1 July is the reference date. Data presented for exact years are: population, population by any specific age group, population by sex and the urban population share. Variables presented for fiveyear periods are: crude birth rate, crude death rate, total fertility rate, infant mortality rate, life expectancy, population growth rate, migration rate and number of migrants.DefinitionsThe source document uses the following definitions:Total fertility: children per womanCrude birth rate: births per thousand populationCrude death rate: deaths per thousand populationInfant mortality rate: infant deaths per thousand live births, for both sexes combinedLife expectancy: expectation of life at birth for both sexes combined (years)Population growth rate: average annual rate of population change (per cent)Migrant numbers: net number of migrants, both sexes combined (thousands) – defined such that a positive number of migrants means that immigrants outnumber emigrantsMigration rate: crude net migration rate (net migrants per thousand population) – defined such that a positive rate means that immigrants outnumber emigrantsPercentage urban population: there is no simple definition for ‘urban’ in UN data. Demographic, administrative, and economic criteria used to report figures on urbanisation differ across countries.In addition, we have defined two age groups, as follows:Working age: 15–64Nonworking age: 0–14 and 65+AssumptionsFertilityThe UN uses several differing assumptions about future fertility in making its projections. For the data and figures in this paper, we have used the UN's ‘mediumfertility variant’ in all instances in which more than one variant is available: total fertility rate, crude birth rate, crude death rate, population (for all age groups), population growth rate, migration rate and number of migrants.For the mediumfertility variant, the UN assumes for all countries that fertility will gradually converge to 1.85 children per woman. It does not assume that countries will necessarily reach that level by 2050. For high and mediumfertility countries (that is, those with total fertility at or below 2.1 children per woman in 2000–2005), projections are built on the experience of all countries that experienced fertility declines during the past halfcentury. If a country's fertility rate is projected to fall to 1.85 before 2050, the UN model assumes it will then remain at that level. Projections are not done mechanistically; they are always checked against recent trends in a specific country. In some instances, these recent trends require an adjustment in projections for the coming five or ten years, after which time projections revert to the basic fertility projection model. For lowfertility countries whose fertility rate is currently below 1.85, the model used by the UN assumes that fertility in the coming five to ten years will follow recent trends and will then increase at a rate of 0.07 children every five years.MortalityThe UN also makes assumptions about future mortality rates, which affect most of the data in the figures in this paper. UN projections take into account recent sexspecific trends and are based on the expectation that life expectancy will rise more slowly in countries that have already reached a fairly high level. For those indicators for which the UN provides data specific to various possible courses of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, we have used only the ‘normal mortality assumption’ (which uses a model that takes HIV/AIDS into consideration and, for countries with high levels of the disease, projects a ‘slowdown in the reduction of general mortality risks not related to HIV/AIDS’).MigrationFor migration numbers and rates, the UN assumes for most countries that migration patterns will change very slowly after the period 2010–2015, compared with the speed at which such patterns changed in the past. Projections are based on past trends and take into account countries' current policies regarding international migration.hi welcome back to the contemporaryworld series i hope you are asexcited as i am to learn something newtodayso this week we will be learning aboutglobal demographydo you know how many we are now in theworld do you know the current populationof the philippinesdo you know what are the top threebiggest countries when it comes topopulationand most importantly what are theimplications ofoverpopulationdemography represents the study ofstatistics such asbirths deaths or incidents of diseasewhich illustrate the changing structureof human populationsand these pose an effect onglobalization as a wholeso in general demography pertains to thecomposition of a particular humanpopulationwe will also be learning some key factsome key terms that are associated withthe study ofdemography and these includes birth ratelife expectancy at birth mortality ratemedian age age dependency ratio and soonso one way that a particular individualis added to the populationis through births of new individualsthe way we measure this particular typeof additionis with the natality rate or the birthratewhich is the number of births per 1000individualper unit of time and usually that isof within a yearon the flip side one way thatindividuals leave a populationand reduce its size is through deathsof individuals and the way we measurethisis through the mortality rate which isthe number of deaths per 1000individual per unit of time again thatperiod of time is usually a yearmigration also affects populationpatternsthe second way that individuals areadded to the populationis through immigration this is thepermanent arrival of new individualsinto the population these individualsare of course the same speciesas the rest of the population and theyincrease the size of the populationas they join the group secondindividuals may livethrough emigration this is the permanentmovement of individuals out of apopulationthey may be juveniles who are headingout on their ownor they may be adults who leave thegroupfor some reasons like overcrowding orforsearching for other sources of food andshelter expectation of lifeat a given age is the average number ofyears which a personof that age may expect to live based onthe mortality pattern prevalentin that country as a result of globaldeclinein fertility and because people areliving longerglobal life expectancy is rising this iswhat we mean when we say60 is a new 40 or 70 is a new50. generally people are getting youngerand that is the result of our investmentin health in medicinein innovations in science and technologyandso on so you can see in this graphthat japan has the leadinglength of years of life expectancythe global life expectancy or theaverage expected living age ofindividuals has steadily increasedfor the world as a whole life expectancyincreasedfrom 47 years in 1950 to 1955to 65 years in 2000 to 2005.in 2016 the world health organizationreported that72 years was the average life expectancyofat birth of the global population thisgraph showsthat right now it's at 73.2 years forbothsuccess combined and it's alsosurprising to note that womenactually live longer than the malecounterpart so it's 75.6years for women compared to that of only70.8 for that ofthe menfertility rate refers to the number ofchildren born by a woman at a period oftimeduring her child bearing age and that isusuallyat 15 to 45 years there areseveral factors such as lifestylefactorsincrease in sexually transmitteddiseases rise in obesityand environmental factors involved inurbanizationand urban lifestyle that are affectingfertility and have led to risein male and female subfertilityin addition there are social economicfactors that have led to couples orwomendelaying having children lack ofaffordable housingflexible and parttime career pose forwomenexpensive child care have allcontributed to the currentlow fertility or birth rate couples orwomenare delaying starting a family which hasled to a true decline in their fertilitylevelsdue to ovarian aging and related reasonsleading to reduced chance of consumptionmedian age on the other hand is the agethat divides a populationinto two numerically equally sizedgroupsthat is half of the people are youngerthan this age and half are older it is asingle index that summarizes the agedistribution of a particularpopulation the global median age hasincreased from 21.5 yearsin 1970 to over 30 years in 2019age dependency ratio is the ratio ofdependents that ispeople younger than 15 years old orolder than 64to the working age population at 15 to64years old the proportion of thepopulation aged 0 to 14over the population aged 15 to 64the socalled working age population isused to indicate the burden of caringfor this group and is calledthe child dependency ratio whereas theproportionof the population over 65 divided by theworking age populationis called the old age dependencyratio now let's talk about a coupleof theories on population growth anddeclinefirst we have the malfution theory andthe demographic transition theorymalfunctionism is the idea thatpopulation growth is potentiallyexponential while the growth of food andother resourcesis linear it derives from the politicaland economic thought of reverend thomasrobert malthusin his 1798 political writingan essay on principle on the principleof populationmalthus argued that population wasgrowing faster than the amount ofresources we could producehe suggested that at some pointpopulation would outgrow resources andthat would be catastrophicthere would be conflict in war andfamine and diseaseswhich would then level the populationgrowth andit would then return to balancenext is the demographic transition modelthis model predictsthat as a country develops high birthrates and high death rates will fallthis model also predicts that countrieswill pass through periods ofindustrializationand urbanization on the way to reducebirthand death rates so there are five stagesstage one is characterized by high birthrates and fluctuatinghigh death rates resulting in smallpopulation growthplagues diseases and poor nutrition keepdeath rateshigh stage 2 is characterized byimproved healthcare sanitation and foodsuppliesleading to a rapid fall in death ratesbirth rates are still high so there is arapid increase in populationnumbers stage 3is characterized by decreased growthrate of a populationbirth rates begin to fallindustrializationurbanization and improved livingstandardslead to less desire to have largefamiliesstage four is characterized by thecompletionof a transition to low growth rate withlow birthand death rates the birth rate mayfluctuatein special circumstances like that ofthe postwar baby boomwhile in stage five it is characterizedby a lower birth rate than death ratethis is happening in some europeancountries and in japanbut it is not known if this trend willalso extend to someother regions so the demographictransition theory predicts thatpopulation grow along a predictablefive stage model in stage one again thepreindustrial societydeath rates and birth rates are high androughly in balanceand population growth is typically veryslowand constrained by available food supplyin stage 2 that isof the developing country the deathrates rapidly declined due toimprovements in food supply andsanitationwhich increases lifespans and reducediseasesin stage 3 birth rates fall due toaccessin contraceptions increases in wagesurbanization and increase in the statusand education of womenand increase in investment in educationpopulation growthbegins to level off in stage fourbirth rates and death rates are both lowthe large group born during stage 2ages and creates an economic burden onthe working age populationin stage 5 though only some theoriesacknowledge this stage other recognizedonly four stagesfertility rates transition to eitherbelow replacementor above replacement so that's ademographic transitiontheory and now let us try to answer ourlast questionwhat are the the implications ofoverpopulationwell there's a good side and thenthere's the bad sidethe good news is there'd be bettereconomythat is why people in rural areashope to have more children in the firstplace more kids would mean there wouldbe morehands to help in the farm or that therewill be more professionals to help theparents later on in their life when theyget oldsecond there will be more efficientutilizationof resources especially inurban areas the denser the populationthe more concentrated it is in oneparticular areaand the more efficient the publictransportationis the lesser the carbon footprintthere'd also be more medicalagriculturaland industrial growth this is owing tothe fact that there would be more brainsadded to our think tankwhich would then contribute to moreinnovations inscience and technology in medicineand in all other areas there'd also bebetterlabor force especially if we have a goodworking age populationand of course there'd be greaterinvestment in capitalformation on the bad side the perils ofoverpopulation include shortage of foodand land many scientists believe that wehave already exceeded themaximum carrying capacity of the earththe food and agricultural organizationwarns that in order to mitigate theimpact of population growthfood production must increase by 70percentannual cereal production must rise to 3billionto add to the current 2.1 billionand yearly meat production has to go upby 200 millionto reach 420 millionthere's also environmental problems takenote that we are 7.8billion here now on earth and the earthhas not gottenany bigger we all need the earth'sresourcesto have energy towarm our bodies to warm our homesto run our cars and so onthere'd be problem of unemployment ofcourseand of course there's a problem onpoverty and low standard of livingthere are millions of people around theworld who are dying of hungerof diseases of malnutritionthere'd also be inflation and of courselike the malfution's way of thinkingsooner or later when resources ranout there'd be conflict and warthe population clock sets the worldpopulation at7.8 billion with chinaleading having 1.4 billionand is considered as the biggest countryin the world when it comes to populationindia has 1.3 billion whileu.s has 331 millionpeople and they come as secondand third place respectivelyphilippines has 109 million and we areon the 13th rank for currentand real time count on population birthrates and death ratescheck world domiter that infoso demography again gives you the toolsand analytical perspective to understandthe world around youit gives you the equipment to solveproblems not only of your communitybut of the world in general and it alsogives us the means to intervene morewisely and effectivelyin the real world to improve not onlyyour own wellbeing butalso that of others with that said thestudy of demographyis an essential area of focus when welook at globalizationas a wholeso in conclusion we have a growingpopulationand experts believe that we will reachthe 9 billion milestonein the year 2050. second the malthusiansway of thinkingis a pessimistic way of thinking butis also a rather realistic way ofthinkingif left unchecked we are bound toendanger our own speciesthrough overpopulation being educatedindividuals and given all those data ijust presented to youi hope that will help you make morewellinformed decisions in the futurelet's look at the bigger picture andrealize thatwhat we do no matter how small as havinga large familyironic as that may sound actuallyaffects the world in generalafter all we are all interconnected inthis small world we live inso i hope that has been helpful to youfor more lectures in the contemporaryworld series please don't forget toDemography is the statistical study of human populations. Demography examines the size, structure, and movements of populations over space and time. It uses methods from history, economics, anthropology, sociology, and other fields. Demography is useful for governments and private businesses as a means of analyzing and predicting social, cultural, and economic trends related to population.While basic demographic studies, such as censuses, were conducted in the ancient world as far back as 6,000 years ago, demographers as we know them, such as John Graunt from the United Kingdom, came about in the 16th century. The earliest statistical studies were concerned mostly with mortality (how many people died and at what age). Through studying baptism and burial records, Graunt could estimate the number of men of military age, and the number of women of childbearing age. His study represents one of the earliest statistical examinations of the population of a region. Demographic studies were often carried out by early insurance agents to determine life insurance rates.These early demographic studies were mostly concerned with mortality. However, in the 19th century, studies showed that there was a decline in the number of births, and researchers began to study fertility as well as mortality. These studies led to the idea of “differential fertility.” Differential fertility suggests that different groups within a population have different numbers of children due to factors, such as religion, cultural attitudes, poverty, and employment. Migration of people is the last main factor in demographic studies. It is these three variables (mortality, fertility, and migration) that contribute to population change.Demographers gather data mainly through government censuses and government registries of births and deaths. However, these sources can be inaccurate depending on the precision of government records. Demographers also gather data indirectly through surveying smaller groups within a population. These samples are then examined using statistical models to draw conclusions about the whole population.THE GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHYChange in terms of the demographic profilesof population around the world DEMOGRAPHYStudy  of  stats  such  as  births,  deaths,income, incidence of disease which illustratethe changing structure of human populationIts all about study of populationHOW DOES DEMOGRAPHY AFFECTS OURLIVES?(IMPORTANCE OF DEMOGRAPHY)1.  It  is  important  to  help  us  know  far  thegrowth  rate  of  the  economy  in  terms  ofpopulation2. We need to know the rate of populationgrowth  rate  because  sometimes  populationmay  experience  problems  because  ofpopulation  explosion  (they  may  haveshortage in terms of water electricity etc)3.  In  terms  of  economic  planning  on  themacro  level,  demography  is  importantparticularly on the data relating to the trendsin population growth because this may helpthe  planners  to  formulate  plans  for  thecountry. RELATIONSHIP OF GLOBALIZATION ANDPOPULATION Globalization affected population in severalways like in technological advancement thatdrastically change global population in termsof fertility rates and the life expectancy  Migration  also  spread  diseases  (HIV  ANDCOVID 19)  TRANSITION  OF  WORLD'SDEMOGRAPHY La croix, Mason, & Abe (2003), wrote thatsince WW2:*Globalization  has  affected  populationdynamics in several ways (demography hasalways  been  affected  by  technologyparticularly in the explosion of contraceptivetechnology, improvement of public health)*  The  size  growth  and  age  structure  ofnational populations also affect globalization(population  change  might  influence  themovement  of  people  products  andinvestment capital among countries)Favourable  changes  in  population,population  structure  can  also  give  positiveinfluences  in  terms  of  economic  growth.Demography is important because that canbe  related  to  their  improvement  politicallyand economically.Lee (2003) argued:*Before Demographic TransitionHigh Birth Rates & High Death Rates (PGGRwas slow & population was young)The  population  growth  was  slow  becausemany people who were being born but at thesame  time  there  are  also  a  lot  of  peopledying*During Demographic TransitionThe mortality declined first which means thenumber  of  people  dying  slowed  downfollowed by Fertility (PGR to accelerate first,then slowdown, moving toward low fertility,long life and an old population)DEMOGRAPHIC TRANSITION MODELGrover 2014 explained that:population  demographics  continued  toevolve as a result of the relationship betweenbirth and death rates within a country.DMT uses death rates and birth ratesthe  observation  and  the  documentation  ofthis global phenomenon produced a model.Lesthaege (2010)The  declines  in  fertility  and  mortality  thatoccurred in western countries from the 18thto  19th  centuries  onward  and  during  thesecond half of the 20th century in much ofthe rest of the world.DMT IS*Actually  based  on  historical  populationtrends and this trend used the birth rate anddeath  rate,  because  of  these  trends  thedemographic  transition  model  created  fivestages  which  has  different  perspectives  interms of economic implicationssuggesting that a country's total PGR cyclesthrough  stages  as  the  countries  developeconomically.STAGES OF DMT1. High fluctuationMost  applicable  to  the  world  before  theindustrial revolution so which means before18th century Both  birth  rates  and  death  rates  are  highand  as  a  result  the  population  growth;  itremains fair and constant (small PG)Reasons for High Birth Rates:1. Limited Birth Control2.High  Infant  Mortality(High  number  ofchildren  who are dying encourages parentsto  give  more  birth  okay  because  as  areplacement they need to bear more childrennumber)3. Economic Advantage (children were seenas  future  source  of  income  therefore  themindset  of  parents  would  be  moreeconomically beneficial for them if they havemore childrenReasons for High Death Rates:1. Diseases2. Poor Nutrition and famine3. Poor Hygiene2. High Birth Rate but Failing Death RateThis  era  is  the  introduction  of  modernmedicine,  Advancement  of  medical  healthcare  that  lowered  death  rate  especiallyamong childrenThe population expanded rapidlyReasons for failing death rate1. Improved public health2. Better Nutrition3. Lower Child mortality3. Falling Birth Rate, continuing falling deathrateThe PG slows downPG still continues but in a lower ratemost of the developing countries are in thisstage Reason for falling birth rate:1. Preferences for smaller families (cheaper)2. Changes in social trends and fashions3. Rise in Materialism4. Lower infant mortality Rate4. Low fluctuationLow birth and death Rates small PGcountries whom in this stage tend to havestronger economieschanges in personal lifestylewomen  are  in  work  force  this  lessen  thecouples who are having kids)Reasons:1. Increase in women's status2. Higher level of education3. Strong Economies4. Better Health care5. Declining populationDeath rate exceeds the birth ratecountries  who  experience  falling  fertilityrates  below  the  replacement  level  (poorchildren and the elderly population is greaterthan the youthful population)this stage has been recently recognized only  few  countries  are  considered  in  thisstage Reasons for low birth rate:1. A rise in individualism2. Greater financial independence of women3. Lack of resources for future generations 4. An increase in nontraditional lifestyles.Limitations of DTM1.  Did  not  include  other  demographicvariables such as migrationmigration  changes  population  of  a  certaincountry2. Did not predict how long a country will bein each stageWORLD'S DEMOGRAPHIC PROFILE (As of 10:05 pm, 11/28/18(world meter))A. World population7,666,525,180 peopleB. Top 10 most populous countries1. China2. India3. USA4. Indonesia5. Brazil6. Pakistan7. Nigeria8. Bangladesh9. Russia10. Mexico15. PhilippinesC. Top 10 least populous countries majority  of  these  countries  are  art  ofmicronesia polynesia and melanesia1. Vatican City2. Tuvalu3. Nauru4. Palau5. Monaco6. San Marino7. Liechtenstein8. Saint Kitts and Nevis9. Dominica10. Marshall IslandsD. Top 10 densely populated countries1. Monaco2. ChinaMacao SAR3. Singapore4. China HK SAR5. Gibraltar6. Bahrain7. Holy See8. Maldives 9. Malta 10. BangladeshE. Top 10 least densely populated country1. Greenland (Denmark)2. Falkland Island (UK)3. Pitcam Island (UK)4. Mongolia5. Namimbia6. French Guiana (France)7. Australia8. Iceland9. Suriname10. MauritaniaF. Top 10 largest urban Agglomerations1. Tokyo2. Delhi3. Shanghai4. Sao Paulo5. Mexico City6. Cairo7. Mumbai8. Beijing9. Dhaka10. OsakaTHE  WORLD'S  LOOMINDDEMOGRAPHICCRISIS1.  The  world's  population  could  reach  14billion by 21002.  Population are shrinking  in  much  of  thedeveloped world 3. Life span are growing almost everywhereAccording  to  Mauldin,  Fertility  rates  andlonger  life  span  mean  that  population  aregetting  older,  soon  world  will  have  morepeople  over  age  65  than  it  has  childrenunder 5The  elderly  population  is  growing  muchfaster  than  the  children  population  as  ourability  to  extend  life  spans  grows  thedisparity between these populations will getworse 4. Who will support children and the elderly?CONCLUSIONAccording to Mauldin (2016), none of this isgood news for either china or the rest of theworld  the  aging  of  world's  population  isbecoming a vast global issue that will affectmultiple domains and shape of the world inthe  coming  decades  it  is  already  havingprofound effects on the global economyTRIVIAit took 200 000 years to reach the first billionhumans  but  only  200  years  to  get  the  7billionGLOBAL MIGRATIONSince the earliest times, humanity has been on the move. Some people move in search of work or economic opportunities, to join family, or to study. Others move to escape conflict, persecution, terrorism, or human rights violations. Still others move in response to the adverse effects of climate change, natural disasters, or other environmental factors.Today, more people than ever live in a country other than the one in which they were born. According to the IOM World Migration Report 2020, as of June 2019 the number of international migrants was estimated to be almost 272 million globally, 51 million more than in 2010. Nearly two thirds were labour migrants. International migrants comprised 3.5 per cent of the global population in 2019. This compared to 2.8 per cent in 2000 and 2.3 per cent in 1980.While many individuals migrate out of choice, many others migrate out of necessity. According to UNHCR, the number of globally forcibly displaced people worldwide was 79.5 million at the end of 2019. Of these, 26 million were refugees (20.4 million refugees under UNHCR’s mandate, 5.6 million Palestine refugees under UNRWA’s mandate). 45.7 million people were internally displaced, 4.2 million were asylumseekers, and 3.6 million were Venezuelans displaced abroad.Who is a migrant?The UN Migration Agency (IOM) defines a migrant as any person who is moving or has moved across an international border or within a State away from his/her habitual place of residence, regardless of (1) the person’s legal status; (2) whether the movement is voluntary or involuntary; (3) what the causes for the movement are; or (4) what the length of the stay is.Migrants and the SDGsThe 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development recognizes for the first time the contribution of migration to sustainable development. 11 out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) contain targets and indicators relevant to migration or mobility. The Agenda's core principle is to "leave no one behind," not even migrants.The SDGs’ central reference to migration is made in target 10.7: to facilitate orderly, safe, regular and responsible migration and mobility of people, including through the implementation of planned and wellmanaged migration policies. Other targets directly related to migration mention trafficking, remittances, international student mobility and more. Moreover, migration is indirectly relevant to many more crosscutting targets.The International Organization for Migration (IOM)Established in 1951, IOM is the leading intergovernmental organization in the field of migration. IOM works to ensure the orderly and humane management of migration, to promote international cooperation on migration issues, to assist in the search for practical solutions to migration problems and to provide humanitarian assistance to migrants in need, including refugees and internally displaced people. In 2016, IOM entered into an agreement with the United Nations (A/70/976), becoming one of its specialized agencies.To promote diversity and inclusion of migrants in society, IOM has developed the platform ‘i am a migrant,’ which features firsthand accounts from individuals, providing insights into the experiences of migrants of all backgrounds and throughout their migratory journeys.Data on migrationIn 2019, the number of international migrants worldwide – people residing in a country other than their country of birth – reached almost 272 million (from 258 million in 2017). Female migrants constituted 48 per cent of international migrants. There were an estimated 38 million migrant children, three out of four international migrants were of working age, meaning between 20 and 64 years old. 164 million were migrant workers. Approximately 31% of the international migrants worldwide resided in Asia, 30% in Europe, 26% in the Americas, 10% in Africa and 3% in Oceania .It can be a challenge to make sense of available migration data, as this is often scattered across different organisations and agencies, and not easily comparable. IOM’s Global Migration Data Analysis Centre runs the Global Migration Data Portal, which serves as a unique access point to timely, comprehensive migration statistics and reliable information about migration data globally. The site presents migration data from diverse sources and aims to help policy makers, national statistical officers, journalists and the general public interested in migration to navigate the increasingly complex landscape of migration data.Global ActionLargescale movements of refugees and migrants affect all UN Member States and they require closer cooperation and responsibilitysharing. In 2016, the UN General Assembly convened a highlevel plenary meeting on addressing large movements of refugees and migrants. The UN SecretaryGeneral prepared the report 'In Safety and Dignity: Addressing Large Movements of Refugees and Migrants' (A/70/59) with recommendations on the issue.UN Member States adopted a set of commitments, known as the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants (A/RES/71/1), in which they recognized the need for a comprehensive approach to migration. The New York Declaration acknowledges the positive contribution of migrants to sustainable and inclusive development, and commits to protecting the safety, dignity and human rights and fundamental freedoms of all migrants, regardless of their migratory status.In March 2017, the UN SecretaryGeneral appointed Louise Arbour of Canada as his Special Representative for International Migration to lead the followup to the migrationrelated aspects of the HighLevel Summit.As a result of the New York Declaration, UN Member States agreed to work together to develop the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, adopted at an intergovernmental conference on international migration in December 2018 in Morocco. The GCM covers diverse issues such as strengthening labour rights for migrant workers, improving migration data as a basis for evidencebased policies, saving lives and establishing international efforts on missing migrants, and many others. The implementation of the GCM will represent progress in governing migration in a way that increases its benefits for individuals, communities and countries, and reduces its risks for all.Global MigrationThe students are expected to:Analyze the political, economic, cultural, and social factors underlying the global movements of people Display firsthand knowledge of the experiences of the OFW’sGlobal Migration: Definitions and TypesMigration means crossing the boundary of a political or administrative unit for acertain minimum period (Boyle et al. 1998).boundary 1: Philippines boundary 2: south koreathe movement of people from one place to another with the purpose ofchanging their residence, either temporary or permanently.Internal migration internal – within the country is the movement of people from one areasuch as a province, a district, or municipality toanother within one country.BUBBLENCR + bubbleGapannuevaecija – boundary – checkpoint – Bulacan – boundary International migration outside your countrystate to state is the crossing the frontiers which separate one of the world’s approximately 200 states from another.Many  scholars  argue  that  internal  andinternational migration are part of the sameprocess; they should be analyzed together.border crossing NOT migration – tourism/businessThe great majority of border crossings do not imply migration: mosttravelers  are  tourists  or  business  visitors  who  have  no  intention  ofstaying in the country for good.International migration arises in a world divided up into nationstates,in which remaining in the country of birth is still seen as norm andmoving to another country as a deviation.Migration tends to be regarded as problematic. It has to be controlledand curbed, for it may bring unpredictable changes.political – education – changes – adjustments  International migrantsTemporary labor migrants who migrate for a limited period of time in order to work and sendremittances to families in the country of origin.Highlyskilled and business migrantspeople  with  qualifications  such  as  the  managers,  executives,professionals, technicians, and the like, who move within the internal labormarkets of transnational corporations and international organizations.Irregular migrantsAlso known as the undocumented or illegal migrants.They enter the country in search for employment with no necessary documents and permits.Refugeesthose who are unable or unwillingto return to their country becauseof  a  ‘wellfounded  fear  ofpersecution on  account  of  race,religion,  nationality,  membershipin  a  particular  social  group  orpolitical opinion.’ – RRNSPsomeone who has been recognisedunder  the  1951  Conventionrelating to the status of refugees to be a refugee.The definition of ‘refugee’ does not cover other individuals or groupsof people who leave their country only because of war or other civildisturbance, famine, natural disasters or in order to seek a betterlife.Asylum seekersthose who move across borders insearch of protection.not because of persecution just to seek for protectionForcedMigration (GENERAL )not voluntaryrefugees  –  asylum  seekers  –all kinds of forced movements in a broader sense, this includesnot only refugees and asylum seekersbut  also  people  forced  to  move  byenvironmental  catastrophes  or  development  projects  like  new  factories,roads or dams.Some reasons for forced migrationDrought  A single drought can spell disaster for communities whoselives and livelihoods rely on regular, successful harvests. In a numberof African countries where Concern works — including Somalia, Kenya,and  Ethiopia  —  droughts  have  become  increasingly  severe,  leavingmillions of citizens without the ability to grow food. They rely on thisfood to feed themselves, their livestock, and their livelihoods.Family membersalso known as family reunion or family reunification migrants. Return migrants those who return to their countries of origin after a period in anothercountry.CAUSES OF MIGRATION1. Disparity in levels of income  employment – compare salary here and in other countries greener pasture 2. Employment  lack of jobs 5 vacancy – 100 applicants – 95 of you – O 3. Social wellbeing  social issues4. Differences in demographic patterns with regard to fertility,  mortality, agestructure, and laborforce growthglobal demographyworking group > dependentsdependents > working group fertility rate >According  to  neoclassical  economic  theory,  the  main  cause  ofmigration  is individual’s  efforts  to  maximize  their  income bymoving from lowwage to highwage economies.Migration  decisions  are  made  not  just  by  individuals  they  oftenrepresent family strategies to maximize income and survival chances.Two Factors of Migration:1. Push Factor   any human or nature factors that encourage or force people to leave a settlement or residence.a. Social push factorb. Political push factorc. Economic push factord. Environmental push factorproblem = push you out of the country2. Pull Factor  any human or nature factors that attract people to live in a new residential area or locationa. Social pull factorb. Political pull factorc. Economic pull factord. Environmental pull factoryour residence gives you enough  attractive offer outside that pulls you to it The Volume of Contemporary MigrationThe  United Nations figures  show  that  the global  migrant  stock  (thenumber of people resident in a  place outside their country of birth)grew from 75 million in 1965 to 120 million in 1990.The 1990 figure was roughly equal to 2% of the world’s population.The number of migrants grew slightly faster than world population as awhole,  but  the  annual  growth  rate  of  1.9%  for  the  whole  periodincreasing to 2.6% from 19851990 was not dramatic.International migrants remain a fairly small minority.Internal migration,conversely, is much larger,For instance the number of internal migrants in India in 1981 was some200 million, more than double the number of international migrants inthe whole world at that time.The significance of migration as a major factor in societal change liesin the fact that it is concentrated in certain countries and regions.Migration  affects  certain  areas  within  both  the  sending  and  thereceiving countries more than others.Migration  needs  to  take  place  in  an  orderly  way  to  safeguard  thehuman rights of migrants.Labor Code – POEA/ DOLE  LAWS to protect migrantsReference:https://olfu.instructure.com/courses/74053/files/6753254?module_item_id=5876558International migration occurs when people cross state boundaries and stay in the host state for some minimum length of the time. Migration occurs for many reasons. Many people leave their home countries in order to look for economic opportunities in another country. Others migrate to be with family members who have migrated or because of political conditions in their countries. Education is another reason for international migration, as students pursue their studies abroad, although this migration is often temporary, with a return to the home country after the studies are completed.ContentsCategories of migrantsWhile there are several different potential systems for categorising international migrants, one system organizes them into nine groups:temporary labor migrantsirregular, illegal, or undocumented migrantshighly skilled and business migrantsrefugeesasylum seekersforced migrationfamily membersreturn migrantslongterm, lowskilled migrantsThese migrants can also be divided into two large groups, permanent and temporary. Permanent migrants intend to establish their permanent residence in a new country and possibly obtain that country's citizenship. Temporary migrants intend only to stay for a limited periods of time, perhaps until the end of a particular program of study or for the duration of a their work contract or a certain work season. Both types of migrants have a significant effect on the economies and societies of the chosen destination country and the country of origin.Countries receiving migrantsCountries which receive migrants have been grouped by academics into four categories: traditional settlement countries, European countries which encouraged labour migration after World War II, European countries which receive a significant portion of their immigrant populations from their former colonies, and countries which formerly were points of emigration but have recently emerged as immigrant destinations. These countries are grouped according to a dichotomy, either migrantsending or migrantreceiving countries, which have distinct governance issues. But this dichotomy is artificial, and it obscures issues from view, for example, when a net migrantsending country is also a 'receiver' of migrants.All things considered, countries like the UAE have the most comprehensive multicultural population, accounting for almost 84% of the total population. Not only United Arab Emirates (UAE), but countries like Qatar also has 74%, Kuwait has 60%, and Bahrain has 55% of their entire population are full of diverse people who emigrate from different countries such as (India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan) which increased population by 500% over the increase from 1.3 million in 1990 to 7.8 million in 2013.Compared with the two governments in the United States, the Trump administration doubled the number of asylum and refugee seekers in the previous Obama administration by 12,000, and by 2020 it will only be 18,000. According to data from the immigration and border service, claims expected for this year will rise to almost three times those of previous years, while only less half than previous administrations have been accepted. The number of reports returned to the Obama administration is 110,000, reaching 368,000 by 2020.In these countries, economic development enabled by remittances, transnational activism in support of outgoing migrant rights, as well as rights for incoming migrants are issues. As people began to immigrate to different countries to support them financially, they also contributed to their country's economy by sending their income as remittances. According to a report by the World Bank, officials said that people from different countries remitted nearly US$400 billion in 2015, and this is increasing every year, with an increase of 0.4%, reaching US$586 billion in the following year.StatisticsFurther information: Human migration § Migration statisticsIt has been predicted, that on average at least "50% of the world population would live in a foreign country" if restrictions of immigration were to be liberalised.Incentives for migrationPush FactorsPoor Medical CareNot enough jobsFew opportunitiesPrimitive ConditionsPolitical fearFear of torture and mistreatmentReligious discriminationLoss of wealthNatural disastersBullyingLower chances of finding courtshipPull FactorsChances of getting a jobBetter living standardsEnjoymentEducationBetter Medical CareSecurityFamily LinksLower CrimeBetter chances of finding courtshipSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTSustainable development is an organizing principle that aims to meet human development goals while also enabling natural systems to provide necessary natural resources and ecosystem services to humans. The desired result is a society where living conditions and resources meet human needs without undermining the planetary integrity and stability of the natural system. Sustainable development tries to find a balance between economic development, environmental protection, and social wellbeing. The Brundtland Report in 1987 defined sustainable development as "development that meets the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs". The concept of sustainable development nowadays has a focus on economic development, social development and environmental protection for future generations.Sustainable development was first institutionalized with the Rio Process initiated at the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. In 2015 the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (2015 to 2030) and explained how the goals are integrated and indivisible to achieve sustainable development at the global level. The UNGA's 17 goals address the global challenges, including poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, peace, and justice.Sustainable development is interlinked with the normative concept of sustainability. UNESCO formulated a distinction between the two concepts as follows: "Sustainability is often thought of as a longterm goal (i.e. a more sustainable world), while sustainable development refers to the many processes and pathways to achieve it." The concept of sustainable development has been criticized in various ways. While some see it as paradoxical (or as an oxymoron) and regard development as inherently unsustainable, others are disappointed in the lack of progress that has been achieved so far. Part of the problem is that "development" itself is not consistently defined.: 16 ContentsDefinitionIn 1987, the United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development released the report Our Common Future, commonly called the Brundtland Report. The report included a definition of "sustainable development" which is now widely used:Sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It contains two key concepts within it:The concept of 'needs', in particular, the essential needs of the world's poor, to which overriding priority should be given; andThe idea of limitations imposed by the state of technology and social organization on the environment's ability to meet present and future needs.— World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future (1987)Sustainable development thus tries to find a balance between economic development, environmental protection, and social wellbeing.Related conceptsSustainabilityThis section is an excerpt from Sustainability.Several visual representations of sustainability and its three dimensions: the left image shows sustainability as three intersecting circles. In the top right it is a nested approach. In the bottom right it is three pillars. The schematic with the nested ellipses emphasizes a hierarchy of the dimensions, putting environment as the foundation for the other two.Sustainability is a social goal for people to coexist on Earth over a long time. Specific definitions of this term are disputed and have varied with literature, context, and time. Experts often describe sustainability as having three dimensions (or pillars): environmental, economic, and social, and many publications emphasize the environmental dimension. In everyday use, sustainability often focuses on countering major environmental problems, including climate change, loss of biodiversity, loss of ecosystem services, land degradation, and air and water pollution. The idea of sustainability can guide decisions at the global, national, and individual levels (e.g. sustainable living). A related concept is sustainable development, and the terms are often used to mean the same thing. UNESCO distinguishes the two like this: "Sustainability is often thought of as a longterm goal (i.e. a more sustainable world), while sustainable development refers to the many processes and pathways to achieve it."Development of the conceptSee also: SustainabilitySustainable development has its roots in ideas regarding sustainable forest management, which were developed in Europe during the 17th and 18th centuries. In response to a growing awareness of the depletion of timber resources in England, John Evelyn argued, in his 1662 essay Sylva, that "sowing and planting of trees had to be regarded as a national duty of every landowner, in order to stop the destructive overexploitation of natural resources." In 1713, Hans Carl von Carlowitz, a senior mining administrator in the service of Elector Frederick Augustus I of Saxony published Sylvicultura economics, a 400page work on forestry. Building upon the ideas of Evelyn and French minister JeanBaptiste Colbert, von Carlowitz developed the concept of managing forests for sustained yield. His work influenced others, including Alexander von Humboldt and Georg Ludwig Hartig, eventually leading to the development of the science of forestry. This, in turn, influenced people like Gifford Pinchot, the first head of the US Forest Service, whose approach to forest management was driven by the idea of wise use of resources, and Aldo Leopold whose land ethic was influential in the development of the environmental movement in the 1960s.Following the publication of Rachel Carson's Silent Spring in 1962, the developing environmental movement drew attention to the relationship between economic growth and environmental degradation. Kenneth E. Boulding, in his influential 1966 essay The Economics of the Coming Spaceship Earth, identified the need for the economic system to fit itself to the ecological system with its limited pools of resources. Another milestone was the 1968 article by Garrett Hardin that popularized the term "tragedy of the commons".The direct linking of sustainability and development in a contemporary sense can be traced to the early 1970s. "Strategy of Progress", a 1972 book (in German) by Ernst Basler, explained how the longacknowledged sustainability concept of preserving forests for future wood production can be directly transferred to the broader importance of preserving environmental resources to sustain the world for future generations. That same year, the interrelationship of environment and development was formally demonstrated in a systems dynamic simulation model reported in the classic report on Limits to Growth. It was commissioned by the Club of Rome and written by a group of scientists led by Dennis and Donella Meadows of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Describing the desirable "state of global equilibrium", the authors wrote: "We are searching for a model output that represents a world system that is sustainable without sudden and uncontrolled collapse and capable of satisfying the basic material requirements of all of its people." Also in 1972 was publication of the influential book, A Blueprint for Survival.In 1975, an MIT research group prepared ten days of hearings on "Growth and Its Implication for the Future" for the US Congress, the first hearings ever held on sustainable development.In 1980, the International Union for Conservation of Nature published a world conservation strategy that included one of the first references to sustainable development as a global priority and introduced the term "sustainable development".: 4  Two years later, the United Nations World Charter for Nature raised five principles of conservation by which human conduct affecting nature is to be guided and judged.Since the Brundtland Report, the concept of sustainable development has developed beyond the initial intergenerational framework to focus more on the goal of "socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic growth".: 5  In 1992, the UN Conference on Environment and Development published the Earth Charter, which outlines the building of a just, sustainable, and peaceful global society in the 21st century. The action plan Agenda 21 for sustainable development identified information, integration, and participation as key building blocks to help countries achieve development that recognizes these interdependent pillars. Furthermore, Agenda 21 emphasizes that broad public participation in decisionmaking is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving sustainable development.The Rio Protocol was a huge leap forward: for the first time, the world agreed on a sustainability agenda. In fact, a global consensus was facilitated by neglecting concrete goals and operational details. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) now have concrete targets (unlike the results from the Rio Process) but no methods for sanctions.: 137 DimensionsMain article: Sustainability § Dimensions of sustainabilitySustainable development, like sustainability, is regarded to have three dimensions: the environment, economy and society. The idea is that a good balance between the three dimensions should be achieved. Instead of calling them dimensions, other terms commonly used are pillars, domains, aspects, spheres.This section is an excerpt from Sustainability § Development of three dimensions.Sustainability Venn diagram, where sustainability is thought of as the area where the three dimensions overlapScholars usually distinguish three different areas of sustainability. These are the environmental, the social, and the economic. Several terms are in use for this concept. Authors may speak of three pillars, dimensions, components, aspects, perspectives, factors, or goals. All mean the same thing in this context. The three dimensions paradigm has few theoretical foundations. It emerged without a single point of origin. Scholars rarely question the distinction itself. The idea of sustainability with three dimensions is a dominant interpretation in the literature.Countries could develop systems for monitoring and evaluation of progress towards achieving sustainable development by adopting indicators that measure changes across economic, social and environmental dimensions.— United Nations Conference on Environment & Development – Earth Summit (1992), : 8.6 CritiqueMain article: Sustainability § CritiqueFurther information: Weak and strong sustainability, Degrowth, and Ecoeconomic decouplingThe concept of sustainable development has been and still is, subject to criticism, including the question of what is to be sustained in sustainable development. It has been argued that there is no such thing as sustainable use of a nonrenewable resource, since any positive rate of exploitation will eventually lead to the exhaustion of earth's finite stock;: 13  this perspective renders the Industrial Revolution as a whole unsustainable.: 20f : 61–67 : 22f The sustainable development debate is based on the assumption that societies need to manage three types of capital (economic, social, and natural), which may be nonsubstitutable and whose consumption might be irreversible. Natural capital can not necessarily be substituted by economic capital. While it is possible that we can find ways to replace some natural resources, it is much less likely that they will ever be able to replace ecosystem services, such as the protection provided by the ozone layer, or the climate stabilizing function of the Amazonian forest.The concept of sustainable development has been criticized from different angles. While some see it as paradoxical (or an oxymoron) and regard development as inherently unsustainable, others are disappointed in the lack of progress that has been achieved so far. Part of the problem is that "development" itself is not consistently defined.: 16  Such a viewpoint contradicts the mainstream academic community, which frequently concedes that the processes of capitalism are incompatible with the longterm sustainability of human life.The vagueness of the Brundtland definition of sustainable development has been criticized as follows:: 17  The definition has "opened up the possibility of downplaying sustainability. Hence, governments spread the message that we can have it all at the same time, i.e. economic growth, prospering societies and a healthy environment. No new ethic is required. This socalled weak version of sustainability is popular among governments, and businesses, but profoundly wrong and not even weak, as there is no alternative to preserving the earth's ecological integrity.": 2 PathwaysFurther information: Sustainability § Sustainability transitionsRequirementsSix interdependent capacities are deemed to be necessary for the successful pursuit of sustainable development. These are the capacities to measure progress towards sustainable development; promote equity within and between generations; adapt to shocks and surprises; transform the system onto more sustainable development pathways; link knowledge with action for sustainability; and to devise governance arrangements that allow people to work together.Environmental characteristics of sustainable citiesA sustainable city is an urban center that improves its environmental impact through urban planning and management. For the definition of an ecocity, imagine a city with parks and green spaces, solarpowered buildings, rooftop gardens, and more pedestrians and bicycles than cars. This is not a futuristic dream. Smart cities are actively moving towards greener urban ecosystems and better environmental management.Further information: Human impact on the environment and Ecological footprintDeforestation of the Amazon rainforest. Deforestation and increased roadbuilding in the Amazon rainforest are a concern because of increased human encroachment upon wilderness areas, increased resource extraction and further threats to biodiversity.Environmental sustainability concerns the natural environment and how it endures and remains diverse and productive. Since natural resources are derived from the environment, the state of air, water, and climate is of particular concern. Environmental sustainability requires society to design activities to meet human needs while preserving the life support systems of the planet. This, for example, entails using water sustainably, using renewable energy and sustainable material supplies (e.g. harvesting wood from forests at a rate that maintains the biomass and biodiversity).An unsustainable situation occurs when natural capital (the total of nature's resources) is used up faster than it can be replenished.: 58  Sustainability requires that human activity only uses nature's resources at a rate at which they can be replenished naturally. The concept of sustainable development is intertwined with the concept of carrying capacity. Theoretically, the longterm result of environmental degradation is the inability to sustain human life.Important operational principles of sustainable development were published by Herman Daly in 1990: renewable resources should provide a sustainable yield (the rate of harvest should not exceed the rate of regeneration); for nonrenewable resources there should be equivalent development of renewable substitutes; waste generation should not exceed the assimilative capacity of the environment.Summary of different levels of consumption of natural resources.: 58 Consumption of natural resources	State of the environment	State of sustainabilityMore than nature's ability to replenish	Environmental degradation	Not sustainableEqual to nature's ability to replenish	Environmental equilibrium	Steady state economyLess than nature's ability to replenish	Environmental renewal	Environmentally sustainableLand use changes, agriculture and foodFurther information: Environmental impact of agricultureEnvironmental problems associated with industrial agriculture and agribusiness are now being addressed through approaches such as sustainable agriculture, organic farming and more sustainable business practices. The most costeffective climate change mitigation options include afforestation, sustainable forest management, and reducing deforestation. At the local level there are various movements working towards sustainable food systems which may include less meat consumption, local food production, slow food, sustainable gardening, and organic gardening. The environmental effects of different dietary patterns depend on many factors, including the proportion of animal and plant foods consumed and the method of food production.Materials and wasteEcological footprint for different nations compared to their Human Development Index (2007)Before fluegas desulfurization was installed, the airpolluting emissions from this power plant in New Mexico contained excessive amounts of sulfur dioxide.Further information: CradletocradleAs global population and affluence have increased, so has the use of various materials increased in volume, diversity, and distance transported. Included here are raw materials, minerals, synthetic chemicals (including hazardous substances), manufactured products, food, living organisms, and waste. By 2050, humanity could consume an estimated 140 billion tons of minerals, ores, fossil fuels and biomass per year (three times its current amount) unless the economic growth rate is decoupled from the rate of natural resource consumption. Developed countries' citizens consume an average of 16 tons of those four key resources per capita per year, ranging up to 40 or more tons per person in some developed countries with resource consumption levels far beyond what is likely sustainable. By comparison, the average person in India today consumes four tons per year.Sustainable use of materials has targeted the idea of dematerialization, converting the linear path of materials (extraction, use, disposal in landfill) to a circular material flow that reuses materials as much as possible, much like the cycling and reuse of waste in nature. Dematerialization is being encouraged through the ideas of industrial ecology, eco design and ecolabelling.This way of thinking is expressed in the concept of circular economy, which employs reuse, sharing, repair, refurbishment, remanufacturing and recycling to create a closedloop system, minimizing the use of resource inputs and the creation of waste, pollution and carbon emissions. Building electric vehicles has been one of the most popular ways in the field of sustainable development, the potential of using reusable energy and reducing waste offered a perspective in sustainable development. The European Commission has adopted an ambitious Circular Economy Action Plan in 2020, which aims at making sustainable products the norm in the EU.Biodiversity and ecosystem servicesThere is a connection between ecosystems and biodiversity. Ecosystems are made up of various living things interacting with one another and their surroundings. Along with this, biodiversity lays the groundwork for ecosystems to function well by defining the kinds of species that can coexist in an environment, as well as their functions and interactions with other species. In 2019, a summary for policymakers of the largest, most comprehensive study to date of biodiversity and ecosystem services was published by the Intergovernmental SciencePolicy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services. It recommended that human civilization will need a transformative change, including sustainable agriculture, reductions in consumption and waste, fishing quotas and collaborative water management. Biodiversity is not only crucial for the wellbeing of animals and wildlife but also plays a positive role in the lives of human beings in the way in which it aids development of human life.Management of human consumption and impactsFurther information: Consumption (economics), Overconsumption, and MicrosustainabilityWaste generation, measured in kilograms per person per dayThe environmental impact of a community or humankind as a whole depends both on population and impact per person, which in turn depends in complex ways on what resources are being used, whether or not those resources are renewable, and the scale of the human activity relative to the carrying capacity of the ecosystems involved. Careful resource management can be applied at many scales, from economic sectors like agriculture, manufacturing and industry, to work organizations, the consumption patterns of households and individuals, and the resource demands of individual goods and services.The underlying driver of direct human impacts on the environment is human consumption. This impact is reduced by not only consuming less but also making the full cycle of production, use, and disposal more sustainable. Consumption of goods and services can be analyzed and managed at all scales through the chain of consumption, starting with the effects of individual lifestyle choices and spending patterns, through to the resource demands of specific goods and services, the impacts of economic sectors, through national economies to the global economy. Key resource categories relating to human needs are food, energy, raw materials and water.Improving on economic and social aspectsFurther information: Corporate sustainability and Sustainable businessIt has been suggested that because of rural poverty and overexploitation, environmental resources should be treated as important economic assets, called natural capital. Economic development has traditionally required a growth in the gross domestic product. This model of unlimited personal and GDP growth may be over. Sustainable development may involve improvements in the quality of life for many but may necessitate a decrease in resource consumption. "Growth" generally ignores the direct effect that the environment may have on social welfare, whereas "development" takes it into account.As early as the 1970s, the concept of sustainability was used to describe an economy "in equilibrium with basic ecological support systems". Scientists in many fields have highlighted The Limits to Growth, and economists have presented alternatives, for example a 'steadystate economy', to address concerns over the impacts of expanding human development on the planet. In 1987, the economist Edward Barbier published the study The Concept of Sustainable Economic Development, where he recognized that goals of environmental conservation and economic development are not conflicting and can be reinforcing each other.A World Bank study from 1999 concluded that based on the theory of genuine savings (defined as "traditional net savings less the value of resource depletion and environmental degradation plus the value of investment in human capital"), policymakers have many possible interventions to increase sustainability, in macroeconomics or purely environmental. Several studies have noted that efficient policies for renewable energy and pollution are compatible with increasing human welfare, eventually reaching a goldenrule steady state.A meta review in 2002 looked at environmental and economic valuations and found a "lack of concrete understanding of what "sustainability policies" might entail in practice". A study concluded in 2007 that knowledge, manufactured and human capital (health and education) has not compensated for the degradation of natural capital in many parts of the world. It has been suggested that intergenerational equity can be incorporated into a sustainable development and decision making, as has become common in economic valuations of climate economics.The World Business Council for Sustainable Development published a Vision 2050 document in 2021 to show "How business can lead the transformations the world needs". The vision states that "we envision a world in which 9+billion people can live well, within planetary boundaries, by 2050." This report was highlighted by The Guardian as "the largest concerted corporate sustainability action plan to date – include reversing the damage done to ecosystems, addressing rising greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring societies move to sustainable agriculture."Gender and leadership in sustainable developmentGender and sustainable development have been examined, focusing on women's leadership potential and barriers to it. While leadership roles in sustainable development have become more androgynous over time, patriarchal structures and perceptions continue to constrain women from becoming leaders. Some hidden issues are women's lack of selfconfidence, impeding access to leadership roles, but men can potentially play a role as allies for women's leadership.BarriersThere are barriers that small and medium enterprises face when implementing sustainable development such as lack of expertise, lack of resources, and high initial capital cost of implementing sustainability measures.Globally, the scale of collective action and lack of political will are barriers to achieving sustainable development. To overcome these challenges, governments must jointly form an agreement of social and political strength. Efforts to enact reforms or design and implement programs to decrease the harmful effects of human behaviors allow for progress toward present and future environmental sustainability goals. The Paris Agreement exemplifies efforts of political will on a global level, a multinational agreement between 193 parties  intended to strengthen the global response to climate change by reducing emissions and working together to adjust to the consequent effects of climate change. Experts continue to firmly suggest that governments should do more outside of The Paris Agreement, there persist a greater need for political will.Another barrier towards sustainable development would be negative externalities that may potentially arise from implementing sustainable development technology. One example would be the development of lithiumion batteries, a key element towards environmental sustainability and the reduction in reliance towards fossil fuels. However, currently with the technology and methodology available, Lithium production poses a negative environmental impact during its extraction from the earth as it uses a method very similar to fracking as well as during its processing to be used as a battery which is a chemically intensive process. One suggested solution would be to weigh the possibility of recycling as this will cut down on the waste of old lithium as well as reducing the need for extracting new lithium from the ground, however, this sustainable development solution is barred from implementation by a high initial cost as studies have shown that recycling old technology for the purpose of extracting metals such as lithium and cobalt is typically more expensive than extracting them from the ground and processing them.Taking into account the pandemic is also something that needs to be considered in the SDG process. Especially for developing countries exposed to social problems affected by COVID19, the connection between postepidemic recovery and SDG needs to be discussed and studied. The COVID19 pandemic has provided substantial roadblocks towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). While the longterm effects of COVID19 on SDGs is limited, research has shown that SDG 1, SDG 4, and SDG 8 are the most likely to be adversely affected by the pandemic. One of the strategies proposed towards SDG in the light of the COVID19 pandemic is green management, or the government strategy of utilizing resources such as water and energy with the intention to change resource consumption behavior. Other strategies include erecting sustainable food systems, labor market energization, inclusive education, and supporting research in the energy sector.Society and cultureSustainable development goalsThe United Nations Sustainable Development GoalsThis section is an excerpt from Sustainable Development Goals.The Sustainable Development Goals or Global Goals are a collection of seventeen interlinked objectives designed to serve as a "shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future." The SDGs are no poverty; zero hunger; good health and wellbeing; quality education; gender equality; clean water and sanitation; affordable and clean energy; decent work and economic growth; industry, innovation and infrastructure; reduced inequalities; sustainable cities and communities; responsible consumption and production; climate action; life below water; life on land; peace, justice, and strong institutions; and partnerships for the goals. The SDGs emphasize the interconnected environmental, social and economic aspects of sustainable development by putting sustainability at their center.The SDGs were formulated in 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) as part of the Post2015 Development Agenda, which sought to create a future global development framework to succeed the Millennium Development Goals, which ended that year. They were formally articulated and adopted in a UNGA resolution called the 2030 Agenda, known colloquially as Agenda 2030. On 6 July 2017, the SDGs were made more actionable by a UNGA resolution that identifies specific targets for each goal and provides indicators to measure progress. Most targets are to be achieved by 2030, although some have no end date. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has also taken the initiative to achieve the SDGs by offering their support to developing countries. For example, the IMF works to reduce poverty in lowincome developing countries by offering financial support during the COVID19 pandemic.There are crosscutting issues and synergies between the different goals; for example, for SDG 13 on climate action, the IPCC sees robust synergies with SDGs 3 (health), 7 (clean energy), 11 (cities and communities), 12 (responsible consumption and production) and 14 (oceans).: 70  Conversely, critics and observers have also identified tradeoffs between the goals,: 67 such as between ending hunger and promoting environmental sustainability.: 26  Other concerns include there being too many goals (resulting in compounding tradeoffs), a weak emphasis on environmental sustainability, and difficulties tracking qualitative indicators.Education for sustainable developmentEducation for sustainable development (ESD) is a term officially used by the United Nations and is defined as education practices that encourage changes in knowledge, skills, values and attitudes to enable a more sustainable and just society for humanity. ESD aims to empower and equip current and future generations to meet their needs using a balanced and integrated approach to the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development.Agenda 21 was the first international document that identified education as an essential tool for achieving sustainable development and highlighted areas of action for education. ESD is a component of measurement in an indicator for Sustainable Development Goal 12 (SDG) for "responsible consumption and production". SDG 12 has 11 targets and target 12.8 is "By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature." 20 years after the Agenda 21 document was declared, the 'Future we want' document was declared in the Rio+20 UN Conference on Sustainable Development, stating that "We resolve to promote education for sustainable development and to integrate sustainable development more actively into education beyond the Decade of Education for Sustainable Development."One version of education for Sustainable Development recognizes modernday environmental challenges and seeks to define new ways to adjust to a changing biosphere, as well as engage individuals to address societal issues that come with them  In the International Encyclopedia of Education, this approach to education is seen as an attempt to "shift consciousness toward an ethics of lifegiving relationships that respects the interconnectedness of man to his natural world" in order to equip future members of society with environmental awareness and a sense of responsibility to sustainability.For UNESCO, education for sustainable development involves:integrating key sustainable development issues into teaching and learning. This may include, for example, instruction about climate change, disaster risk reduction, biodiversity, and poverty reduction and sustainable consumption. It also requires participatory teaching and learning methods that motivate and empower learners to change their behaviours and take action for sustainable development. ESD consequently promotes competencies like critical thinking, imagining future scenarios and making decisions in a collaborative way.The Thessaloniki Declaration, presented at the "International Conference on Environment and Society: Education and Public Awareness for Sustainability" by UNESCO and the Government of Greece (December 1997), highlights the importance of sustainability not only with regards to the natural environment, but also with "poverty, health, food security, democracy, human rights, and peace".GLOBAL FOOD SECURITYPangasinan State UniversitySan Carlos CampusS.Y. 20212021San Carlos City PangasinanGLOBAL FOOD SECURITY I. INTRODUCTION Food is the first basic human need and fundamental right of every human being,having constitutional guarantees in almost all countries. That's why the UNO recognized theRight to food in the Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, vital for the enjoyment of all otherrights. Although food security has always been a crucial issue, there is increasing globalconcern in it after 2007/8 food crises which is reinforced whenever food prices start rising.Food security is about the ability of every human being physically, economically, and sociallyto gain access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food to accommodate their dietary plans andfood preferences in order to get a healthy life. The conditions of food security nowadays areaffected from so many factors such as food system, nutrition, and climate change that wouldcontribute in either the development of food security or retreat of food security that will leadto the global food insecurity. There are also four basis of food security, which are availability,accessibility, utilizations and stability. These four basis would help finding every country’sfood security conditions.The conditions of food system are affecting the decisions of every human being ontheir dietary plans, nutritional status and the sustainability of food system. The amount ofadequate food consumed by human also measures the conditions of food system nowadayssince it is every human being’s right to gain adequate foods. Another thing that affects theconditions of food security nowadays is nutrition. Nutrition is the most concerning one. Theconcern of nutrition of  food  security includes malnutrition  and  hunger that would rapidlyescalates into a more critical conditions if it doesn’t being overcome soon. This conditioncould bring the set back of global food security. However, to overcome this issue, agriculturalsector must play roles in improving nutrition and food security.However, climate change also plays important role in global food security where it isactually the root cause of food insecurity. Climate change is a major challenge for globalfood security specially in dryland such as Africa and Middle East. It also gives potentialimpact on the four basis of food security. In this issue, International Organization takes partto overcome and avoid food insecurity and also develop the sustainability of food security.This topic is very important to be discussed because global food security gives majorimpacts on human being’s condition and how they would be able to survive to gain adequatefood. Hence, global food security is also important to understand global food security indexso that we could find  out  which  country needs to be improved and what aspects eachcountry should maintain or develop.Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2BII. BODY/CONTENTHunger is that painful sensation, or exhausted condition that one feels from want of food.Also, scarcity of food. Pope Benedict XVI, during summit of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization(FAO) in 2009 in Rome referred to hunger as “the most cruel and concrete sign of poverty”Global Food Security Refers to the availability and accessibility of  an individual  to get  sufficientquantity of food that is reliable and affordable to the individual. A household is considered food secure  when its occupants  do not  live  inhunger or fear of starvation. According to The World Food Summit of 1996 defined food security as “when all people at alltimes have access to sufficient, safe, nutritious food to maintain a healthy and active life”The United States is leading international efforts to address the need that peoplearound the world have for reliable sources of quality food. American aid is, in part, directed tofood  security  —  ensuring  every  nation  has  the  ability  to  feed  its  population  adequateamounts of nutritional foods.FOOD SECURITY  EVOLUTIONDuring 1970s, food crisis created awareness for food security and led to formal institutionalresponse globally. However, food availability through buffer stocks was considered enoughfor ensuring food security.During 1980s, concern with increased poverty added access to food as essential as foodavailability for food security.During 1990s, interest in human development led to absorption of food also as an essentialcomponent of food security. During 2000s, recurring food crises necessitated  to include stability as one of the  maincomponents of food security. During  2010s,  evidence  of  increasing  malnutrition  among  the  children/females  led  toinclusion of nutrition also as an essential element of food security. Now food security means 5 things:Food is available in country It is accessible to people, physically and financially People are healthy to absorb itFood Supplies / prices are stable over periodIt is nutritious enough to sustain in a human body. Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2BIMPORTANCE OF GLOBAL FOOD SECURITYGrowth in the agriculture sector has been found, on average, to be at least twice aseffective in reducing poverty as growth in other sectors. Food insecurity – often rooted inpoverty  –  decreases  the  ability  of  countries  to  develop  their  agricultural  markets  andeconomies.Access to quality, nutritious food is fundamental to human existence. Secure accessto food can produce wide ranging positive impacts, including:Economic growth and job creationPoverty reductionTrade opportunitiesIncreased global security and stabilityImproved health and healthcareNational Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) is  a  U.S.  federal  government  body  whose  creation  was  mandated  in  the  Food,Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008. Its purpose is to consolidate all federally fundedagricultural research, and it is subordinate to the Department of Agriculture.NIFA’S IMPACTNIFA supports global efforts to strengthen agricultural production and end hunger by:Helping  countries  to  improve  their  agricultural  markets  and  increase  foodproductionFunding research to heighten disease resistance in beans and increase  cropproductionJoining with USDA and other federal agencies on global initiatives intended tobreak the cycle of hunger and povertyDeveloping and testing new food products designed to improve the nutritionalvalue of the food aid that is delivered overseasStrengthening developing countries’ extension systemsHelping developing countries improve their agricultural economiesThe United States Department of Agriculture (USDA)Also  known  as  the Agriculture  Department,  is  the  federal  executive  departmentresponsible  for  developing  and  executing  federal  laws  related  to  farming,  forestry,  ruraleconomic development, and food. It aims to meet the needs of commercial farming andlivestock food production, promotes agricultural trade and production, works to assure foodsafety, protects natural resources, fosters rural communities and works to end hunger in theUnited States and internationally.The USDA is made up of 29 agencies and offices, which include valuable resourceslike the Forest Service, the Center  for Nutrition Policy and  Promotion, and the NationalContemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2BAgricultural  Library.  Its  programs  help  provide  the  following  services,  among  others:broadband  access  in  rural  areas;  disaster  assistance  to  farmers,  ranchers,  and  ruralresidents;  soil,  water,  and  other  natural  resource  conservation  to  landowners;  wildfireprevention; and agricultural research and statistics.The USDA also is responsible for several social welfare programs, including: schoolmeal nutrition; nutrition education; food assistance for women, infants, and children (WIC);and the food stamp program (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP).The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Is a specialized agency of the United Nations for food, nutrition, agriculture, fisheriesand forestry. FAO’s global vision is for a world free from hunger and malnutrition where foodand agriculture contribute to improving the living standards of all especially the poorest, in aneconomically, socially and environmentally sustainable manner.The  Food  and Agriculture  Organization  (FAO),  a  UN  agency,  strives  to  combathunger and reduce poverty globally by improving agricultural, forestry, and fishingpractices.Funded by industrialized countries and development banks, the FAO often worksthrough publicprivate partnerships.Rather than directly administer aid or food, the FAO attempts to set up sustainablefood sources, resources, and operational systems in nations.The  FAO  works  to  promote publicprivate  partnerships,  improve small  holderagriculture, and develop mechanisms to monitor, reduce, and warn about hazards to thefood  chain. Funding  comes  from  industrialized countries,  development  banks,  and  othersources.The 7 Departments of FAO1. The Agriculture and Consumer Protection Department promotes agriculture to eradicate human poverty while also protecting the environment and ensuring safe food practices and standards.2. The Climate, Biodiversity, Land and Water Department promotes sustainable management practices for land, soils, energy, water, biodiversity, and genetic resources.3. The Corporate Services Department supports the entire FAO organization.4. The Economic and Social Development Department promotes economic development through internal production and trade.5. The Fisheries and Aquaculture Department promotes the management of aquaculture and fishing.6. The Forestry Department promotes the management of resources through forestry.7. Technical Cooperation and Programme Management Department supports member countries in their programs and responds to food and agriculturerelated threats and crises.Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2BThe Impact of COVID19 on hunger and undernutrition has made it even more urgentfor the Government of the Philippines to scale up its efforts to tackle undernutrition.Hunger in the Philippines rose sharply following the start of the pandemic. SocialWeather Stations  (SWS)  surveys  show  that  in  September  2020,  after  seven  months  ofcommunity quarantine, 31% of families reported experiencing hunger in the past 30 days,and 9% were suffering severe hunger—in both cases, the highest levels recorded in morethan 20 years.A national survey conducted from April 28 to May 2 among 1,200 adults found that16.8% of Filipino families experienced “involuntary hunger” or hunger due to lack of food atleast once in the past three months.In November 2020, hunger was at 23.3% (780,000 families) in Metro Manila, 16% (909,000families) in Mindanao, 14.4% (1.6 million families) in Balance Luzon, and 14.3% (674,000families) in the Visayas.PAGPAG is the Tagalog term for leftover food from restaurants scavenged from garbage sitesand dumps. Pagpag food can also be expired frozen meat, fish, or vegetables discarded bysupermarkets and scavenged in garbage trucks where this expired food is collected.Effects of Global Food InsecurityNearly a billion people across the world experience the effects of food insecurity. According to the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), foodsecurity means having, at all times, both physical and economic access to sufficient food tomeet dietary needs for a productive and healthy life. Put more simply, families are able toafford and obtain enough nutritious food. A family is food secure when its members do notlive in hunger or fear of hunger. Both in the United States and in developing nations, foodinsecurity is often linked to poverty. Shifts in the global economy, including rises in globalContemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2Bfood and oil prices, can affect food security throughout the world, with especially severeeffects in lowincome countries.Effects of Food Insecurity includes:1. Effects on ChildrenThere are more inclined to hospitalization and at a higher risks of chronic health conditions like anemia and asthma, Food Insecurity in children is also pertained to the poor physical quality of life and impedes them form fully engaging them in daily school activities, as well as social interaction with their peers.2. Food Insecurity Leads to Hunger Hunger can also result from food insecurity.3. Increases in Food PricesFood insecurity means there is a scarcity of food commodities, making the available food expensive to purchase. These means the prices will go up and will result in related items being more expensive.4. UnemploymentWhen a nation is insecure about their availability of food, the economy will slow down. This means more people will lose their jobs, wages will be lost, and losses in income will be prevalent.5. A Rise in Healthrelated CostsThe higher the rate of food insecurity, the higher the risk of developing chronic illness such as heart diseases6. Violent ConflictDespite violence being a cause food insecurity, the lapse is also true. Food insecurity, especially when caused by a rise in food prices, is danger, and results in Challenges to Global Food Security These are but few of the numerous contemporary issues plaguing the world today. Inthis section, we will look into some of the factors that contribute largely to issues pertainingto world hunger and food insecurity. A. Global Water CrisesWater and food crises are intertwined, and if the balance in allocation, conservation,and proper management of land and water resources is not addressed, the risk for waterand food insecurity increases. Distress, poverty, conflicts, and human mobility may furtherensue as indirect outcomes.B. Climate ChangeClimate change will affect all four dimensions of food security: food availability, foodaccessibility, food utilization and food systems stability. It will have an impact on humanhealth, livelihood assets, food production and distribution channels, as well as changingpurchasing power and market flows.C. Land DegradationDesertification  and  land  degradation  are  gradually  reducing  the  capacity  ofecosystems in affected regions to sustain life. The degradation of land reduces biodiversityand  contributes  to  climatic  changes,  while  reducing  land  productivity  and  the  ability  forcommunities to sustain livelihoods.Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2BD. Greedy Land DealsCorporations and Governments buying rights to millions of acres of agricultural landin developing countries to secure their own longterm food supplies.The World Health Organization (WHO) defines three main aspects of food security:Food availabilityHaving a sufficient supply of food available on a consistent basis. This food can beeither locally produced or imported from other places. In some cases, communities may beunable to produce their own food locally because of inappropriate agricultural technologiesor practices; lack of natural resources or productive land; lack of irrigation water; climateconstraints;  emergency  situations  like  natural  disasters;  or  health  constraints,  such  asHIV/AIDS, that prevent people from engaging in labor. Communities may be unable to importfood from other places because of issues like lack of foreign exchange, political unrest, orlack of transportation. Food accessHaving sufficient resources to obtain appropriate foods for a nutritious diet (3). Evenwhen a sufficient supply of food exists to feed everyone, food may not always be accessibleto everyone. People need to have sufficient incomes and resources in order to obtain food.There are several factors that can affect a person's economic access to food, including lackof  job  opportunities  that  can  provide  sufficient  income,  or  lack  of  training  or  businessknowledge for success with income generating activities and gender issue.Food utilization, or consuming a nutritious diet This means that people make appropriate use of food, based on knowledge of basicnutrition  and  care,  and  have  access  to  water  and  sanitation  for  preparing  food  andmaintaining proper hygiene. Nutrition education can be an important part of improving foodutilizationmaking sure people are aware of the variety of foods their bodies need to maintaingood health. In many parts of the world experiencing food insecurity, people may consumesufficient quantities of  starchy  staple  foods  like  potatoes,  rice,  maize,  and  cassava,  butinsufficient quantities of protein, oils, dairy, fruits and vegetables that make up a balanceddiet.  Changing  this  may  not  only  require  nutrition  education,  but  also  increasing  foodavailability through improved agricultural practices and resources.III. ConclusionIt concludes, global food security is still important to notice since it is related and giveimpact to every human being in the world. Global food security is not always about takingcare of the food that is ready to be consumed by people but also how this food can begained, how human can get access to gain adequate food, and how every country’s foodsecurity condition is different. There are some aspects that each country needs to improveso that food insecurity will not happen to their country.Contemporary World Pangasinan State UniversityBEED 2BGlobal Food Security must be noticed when it includes all human activities in gainingproper food since it is every human’s right to consume adequate food. This global foodsecurity also helps country to determine their own policy and food system in order to getsustainable food consumption, such as how they should improve in agricultural sector andlivestock sector.In order to overcome or develop the conditions of food global food security, there aresome International Organization such as United Nations that takes part in maintaining anddeveloping food security whether with nutrition, food system, and the sustainability of foodsecurity.  some  International  platform  also  take  part  in  avoiding  food  insecurity  such  asCommittee of World Food Security.Food security in its broadest sense is characterized by the needs of every nation. It isa Global response towards the betterment of global health and humanitarian needs. Today,there are still many similar situations, although the problem of has become invisible. Thegovernment is still making efforts to aid those in need, and thanks to research and mediacoverage, the issue of food insecurity is becoming more transparent. The concept of food security is dynamic; it has been changing to incorporate new ideas over the years since it was established. In this piece, I will argue that if cultural acceptability is to be added as a tenant of food security then so must sustainability. Cultural acceptability addresses the needs of various ethnicities, for example providing kosher foods for the Jewish population and halal foods for the followers of Islam. Since there is a new focus on the environment with initiatives such as the Kyoto Protocol, this piece concludes further that sustainability should also be an integral part of food security as a concept, if food security is to maintain its legitimacy as a concept.Changing demographics over the last two hundred years, especially since the advent of the Industrial Revolution, have altered the landscape of the developed world. Prior to the late 1800s, populations were more geographically scattered than today in an agrarian, agricultural setting. Following the technological and industrial advances that have occurred since this time, the majority of the populace moved to an urban environment. The migration to cities has changed the methods of providing sustenance to people. The structure is no longer that of a typical agrarian society . Instead, the food production and distribution systems are dominated by the corporate world which has led to the bulk of the food production system being in the hands of a few select companies.1 It is this "oligarchy" that causes a problem for the concept of food security in the urban environment.The five main tenets of the concept of food security are: quality; quantity; safety; palatability and cultural acceptability . Until the mid1990s, food security was only defined by the trio of quality, quantity and safety. However since then, the concept of cultural acceptability has worked its way into the food security nexus. Culturally acceptability refers to the access to food stuffs that are acceptable for a designated population, for instance access to kosher food for the Jewish population.2 These elements encompass the major areas relating to food security, but there is an extra dimension that needs to be incorporated: sustainability. The inclusion of sustainability is necessary due to the changing geography of human society, with the everincreasing focus on globalisation and corporate integration.Sustainability, for the purposes of this exploration, will be the inclusion of urban and periurban agriculture, that is those outside the city limits but not in rural (i.e. suburban areas), to supplement the prevalent food system in place today. The currently prevalent food system is taken to refer to the corporatecentred, largescale food production system which predominates in the developed world.The developed world is usually conceptualised as exempt from issues of food security. Affluence and privilege supposedly indicate that people's "fundamental needs" have been met clothing, shelter, clean water and adequate food. However, this is not the case. For example , the Community Food Security Coalition's North American Urban Agriculture Committee lament s that 'one of the worst paradoxes in human history and one of the consequences of the economic structure of the current food system is hunger in the midst of plenty.3 It is this "hunger" that needs to be explored. For the following discussion, the concept of food security is the one defined by the International Food Policy Research Institute, which now covers the following:Quantity: energyQuality: provision of all essential nutrientsSafety: free from toxic factors and contaminantsPalatability: taste , texture and so onCommon Availability: nationally, in local markets, and eventually at the household levelCultural Acceptability4Within the context of a First World urban environment, several facets take on increased importance. The concept of quantity, for the most part, is the least pressing issue. Generally, there is an available food supply that meets the necessary caloric intake for the population. Therefore, it is the other factors that come into sharp relief  the concepts of quality and acceptability being two of the most difficult to fulfil.The United States, for example, does not share the same problems as a faminestricken Ethiopia of the early 1980s, but it has its own problems regarding nutrition. Meeting the nutritional requirements in an aggregate sense is not an issue, 'in the US, where food insecurity has been a persistent, if less severe problem, the concept of food security replaces the medical model of hunger and malnutrition during the 1980s.5 The issues of safety, quality and cultural acceptability consequently come into question with regard to food security in the First World urban environment.The practically oligarchic structure of the retail distribution and processing of the food supply to large urban conurbations in the developed world is of acute import ance to the planning and safety aspects of food security. The concentration of responsibility for the majority of production in very few raises concerns regarding the adverse effects that partial failure could hold for a large number of people. The socioeconomic implications for the state in question, both domestic and abroad , would be of unprecedent ed dimensions.At present, there is an issue of quality, in terms of nutritional value, that is of most pressing concern for the urban environment. Food in the current system, supplying the major retail establishments and food shops, is bound by their structures of economic productivity and profit In accordance with "capitalist motivations" these are put ahead of the inherent quality of the food supplied. On average the distance "from field to plate" in the US is between 1500 and 2500 miles. As a result of extensive transit periods  ranging from one week to two  a significant proportion of the produce is lost to spoilage. This consistent loss to spoilage represents approximately half of the crops gross yield.6 As a consequence, there is a distinct predisposition and inclination among farmers and crop producers to opt for, not the most palatable or nutritious produce, but those most resilient to the rigours and harsh conditions of industrial harvesting and distribution.7 This isa pressing issue, particularly in the US and Europe, and especially the United Kingdom.Medical News Today estimates that the volume of malnourished individuals across the European Union amounts to a shocking fifty million.8 There have been several recent studies done on the topic of the prevalence of malnutrition, especially among the ageing sectors of the population. Up to ten per cent of those suffering from malnutrition are above the age of 65. Even more disturbingly, the proportion of individuals admitted to hospitals and nursing homes classified as suffering from malnutrition rises to a staggering one third.9 This problem relates, in part, to two distinct obstaclesfaced by the general public of First World urban environments. Firstly, the aforementioned problems faced by the currently prevalent structure of the food production industry, especially with regard to the overriding economic pragmatism of producers, impacts other areas of the food security dynamic. These include the cultural acceptability and common availability of nutrientrich produce. Secondly, the sociocultural effects of the capitalist, consumerist drive, which continues to shape the Western economic system.The underlying economic ramifications of the Western market's capitalL.t perspective have further implications for the aspects of food quality and quantity.10 The Americanised Western consumer culture L. a particularly distinct trend, especially when taking into account the development of the "McCulture" that has taken on a life of its own in recent decades. In a modern urban environment, individuals are bombarded with the advertising and branding techniques of large corporations, such as WalMart, Tesco, Morrisans and Publix:. On every corner, franchises are peddling their highcalorie, nutritionally lacking, "fast foods". Orr the topic of nutritional responsibility such corporations argue that it is a free choice consumers make to partake in the commodities that they supply. This, however, has been opposed on several fronts, most prominently on that of the addictive nature of their products.There have been several studies conducted which have found that it is less a question of "gluttony and fecklessness" that contributes to the consumer choice to partake in fast food, and more due to the addictive nature of the food itself: something conspicuously overlooked in the multinationals' arguments in support of free choice.11 However, lobbying stifles the initiative of policy makers to construct policies that would benefit the population as a whole. On the regulatory level, this is something that needs to be taken into consideration. Framed in the traditional paradigm of free choice, this makes for a fairly grim outlook for those concerned about their nutritional and cultural "rights" in terms of food security. This is not to say that individual consumer choices are not a major factor in maintaining their own health and choice of food, but it is a concern for the governing institution s and requires further scrutiny  there is need for further inquiry into the nature of the food on offer and the chains that supply it.The concept of cultural acceptability as an addition to the food security nexus is a relatively recent phenomenon. The cultural pluralism stemming from globalisation and the "shrinking" of the world gave rise to this previously overlooked factor. In a similar vein, the issue of sustainability needs to work its way into the conception of food security when considering the progression of globalisation and the environmental impacts of the modern lifestyle on the planet. The promotion of sustainable Urban and periurban agricultural projects will reduce the impact on the environment, reducing the carbon footprint of the traditional food production system as well as reducing the mileage of the distribution process. The practices of urban agricultural projects also span the full length and breadth of the concept of food security. In addition to the conscious decisions concerning caloric intake that these projects further, they address the variables of nutritional content and palatability. Furthermore, they reduce concerns over toxic contaminants and cater to the cultural proclivities of those who seek to express culinary consciousness through the food they eat.Currently there are a variety of initiatives in place in large urban environments that help to contribute to the quality of the nutritional intake of those who engage in them. The Community Food Security Coalition has compiled a lL'>ot f activities that would be included under the umbrella heading of Urban Agriculture which includes 'fish farms, farm animals at public housing sites, municipal compost facilities, schoolyard greenhouses , restaurantsupported salad gardens, backyard orchards, rooftop gardens and beehives, window box gardens and much more'.12In Are We Planning for Sustainable Development?, the authors review the planning agenda of urban agriculture across 105 communities in the US and find that 'many communities are now embracing the concept  Extended, the idea leads to questions about the state of global society in the age of globalization.In general usage, the term may have much the same meaning as "world citizen" or cosmopolitan, but it also has additional, specialized meanings in differing contexts. Various organizations, such as the World Service Authority, have advocated global citizenship.ContentsUsageEducationGlobal Citizenship youth work project in Wales, 2016In education, the term is most often used to describe a worldview or a set of values toward which education is oriented (see, for example, the priorities of the Global Education First Initiative led by the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations). The term "global society" is sometimes used to indicate a global studies set of learning objectives for students to prepare them for global citizenship (see, for example, the Global Studies Center at the University of Pittsburgh).Global citizenship educationMain article: Global citizenship educationWithin the educational system, the concept of global citizenship education (GCED) is beginning to supersede or overarch movements such as multicultural education, peace education, human rights education, Education for Sustainable Development, and international education. Additionally, GCED rapidly incorporates references to the aforementioned movements. The concept of global citizenship has been linked with awards offered for helping humanity. Teachers are being given the responsibility of being social change agents. Audrey Osler, director of the Centre for Citizenship and Human Rights Education, the University of Leeds, affirms that "Education for living together in an interdependent world is not an optional extra, but an essential foundation".With GCED gaining attention, scholars are investigating the field and developing perspectives. The following are a few of the more common perspectives:Critical and transformative perspective. Citizenship is defined by being a member with rights and responsibilities. Therefore, GCED must encourage active involvement. GCED can be taught from a critical and transformative perspective, whereby students are thinking, feeling, and doing. In this approach, GCED requires students to be politically critical and personally transformative. Teachers provide social issues in a neutral and gradeappropriate way for students to understand, grapple with, and do something about.Worldmindedness. Graham Pike and David Selby view GCED as having two strands. Worldmindedness, the first strand, refers to understanding the world as one unified system and a responsibility to view the interests of individual nations with the overall needs of the planet in mind. The second strand, Childcenteredness, is a pedagogical approach that encourages students to explore and discover on their own and addresses each learner as an individual with inimitable beliefs, experiences, and talents.Holistic Understanding. The Holistic Understanding perspective was founded by Merry Merryfield, focusing on understanding the self in relation to a global community. This perspective follows a curriculum that attends to human values and beliefs, global systems, issues, history, crosscultural understandings, and the development of analytical and evaluative skills.PhilosophyGlobal citizenship, in some contexts, may refer to a brand of ethics or political philosophy in which it is proposed that the core social, political, economic, and environmental realities of the world today should be addressed at all levels—by individuals, civil society organizations, communities, and nation states—through a global lens. It refers to a broad, culturally and environmentally inclusive worldview that accepts the fundamental interconnectedness of all things. Political, geographic borders become irrelevant and solutions to today's challenges are seen to be beyond the narrow vision of national interests. Proponents of this philosophy often point to Diogenes of Sinope (c. 412 B.C.) as an example, given his reported declaration that "I am a citizen of the world (κοσμοπολίτης, cosmopolites)" in response to a question about his place of origin. A Tamil term, Yadhum oore yaavarum kelir, has the meaning of "the world is one family". The statement is not just about peace and harmony among the societies in the world, but also about a truth that somehow the whole world has to live together like a family.Psychological studiesGlobal pollsters and psychologists have studied individual differences in the sense of global citizenship. Beginning in 2005, the World Values Survey (WVS), administered across almost 100 countries, included the statement, "I see myself as a world citizen". In the WVS Wave 6, conducted from 2010 to 2014, across the globe 29.5% "strongly agreed" and another 41% "agreed" with this statement. However, there were wide national variations, as 71% of citizens of Qatar, 21% of U.S. citizens, 16% of Chinese, and just 11% of Palestinians "strongly agreed". Interpreting these differences is difficult, however, as survey methods varied for different countries, and the connotations of "world citizen" differ in different languages and cultures.For smaller studies, several multiitem scales have been developed, including Sam McFarland and colleagues' Identification with All Humanity scale (e.g., "How much do you identify with (that is, feel a part of, feel love toward, have concern for) ... all humans everywhere?"), Anna Malsch and Alan Omoto's Psychological Sense of Global Community (e.g., "I feel a sense of connection to people all over the world, even if I don't know them personally"), Gerhard Reese and colleagues' Global Social Identity scale (e.g. "I feel strongly connected to the world community as a whole"), and Stephen Reysen and KatzarskaMiller's global citizenship identification scale (e.g., "I strongly identify with global citizens"). These measures are strongly related to one another, but they are not fully identical.Studies of the psychological roots of global citizenship have found that persons high in global citizenship are also high on the personality traits of openness to experience and agreeableness from the Big Five personality traits and high in empathy and caring. Oppositely, the authoritarian personality, the social dominance orientation, and psychopathy are all associated with less global human identification. Some of these traits are influenced by heredity as well as by early experiences, which, in turn, likely influence individuals' receptiveness to global human identification.Research has found that those who are high in global human identification are less prejudiced toward many groups, care more about international human rights, worldwide inequality, global poverty and human suffering. They attend more actively to global concerns, value the lives of all human beings more equally, and give more in time and money to international humanitarian causes. They tend to be more politically liberal on both domestic and international issues. They want their countries to do more to alleviate global suffering.Following a social identity approach, Reysen and KatzarskaMiller tested a model showing the antecedents and outcomes of global citizenship identification (i.e., degree of psychological connection with global citizens). Individuals' normative environment (the cultural environment in which one is embedded contains people, artifacts, cultural patterns that promote viewing the self as a global citizen) and global awareness (perceiving oneself as aware, knowledgeable, and connected to others in the world) predict global citizenship identification. Global citizenship identification then predicts six broad categories of prosocial behaviors and values, including: intergroup empathy, valuing diversity, social justice, environmental sustainability, intergroup helping, and a felt responsibility to act. Subsequent research has examined variables that influence the model such as: participation in a college course with global components, perception of one's global knowledge, college professors' attitudes toward global citizenship, belief in an intentional worlds view of culture, participation in a fan group that promotes the identity, use of global citizen related words when describing one's values, possible self as a global citizen, religiosity and religious orientation, threat to one's nation, interdependent selfconstrual prime, perception of the university environment, and social media usage.In 2019, a review of all studies of the psychology of global human identification and citizenship through 2018 was published.AspectsGeography, sovereignty, and citizenshipAt the same time that globalization is reducing the importance of nationstates, the idea of global citizenship may require a redefinition of ties between civic engagement and geography. Facetoface town hall meetings seem increasingly supplanted by electronic "town halls" not limited by space and time. Absentee ballots opened the way for expatriates to vote while living in another country; the Internet may carry this several steps further. Another interpretation given by several scholars of the changing configurations of citizenship due to globalization is the possibility that citizenship becomes a changed institution; even if situated within territorial boundaries that are national, if the meaning of the national itself has changed, then the meaning of being a citizen of that nation changes.Human rightsThe lack of a universally recognized world body can put the initiative upon global citizens themselves to create rights and obligations. Rights and obligations as they arose at the formation of nationstates (e.g. the right to vote and obligation to serve in time of war) are being expanded. Thus, new concepts that accord certain "human rights" which arose in the 20th century are increasingly being universalized across nations and governments. This is the result of many factors, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations in 1948, the aftermath of World War II and the Holocaust and growing sentiments towards legitimizing marginalized peoples (e.g., preindustrialized peoples found in the jungles of Brazil and Borneo). Couple this with growing awareness of our impact on the environment, and there is the rising feeling that citizen rights may extend to include the right to dignity and selfdetermination. If national citizenship does not foster these new rights, then global citizenship may seem more accessible.Global citizenship advocates may confer specific rights and obligations of human beings trapped in conflicts, those incarcerated as part of ethnic cleansing, and preindustrialized tribes newly discovered by scientists living in the depths of dense jungle UN General AssemblyOn 10 December 1948, the UN General Assembly Adopted Resolution 217A (III), also known as "The Universal Declaration of Human Rights".Article 1 states that "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood."Article 2 states that "Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinions, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, nonselfgoverning or under any other limitation of sovereignty."Article 13(2) states that "Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country."As evidence in today's modern world, events such as the Trial of Saddam Hussein have proven what British jurist A. V. Dicey said in 1885, when he popularized the phrase "rule of law" in 1885. Dicey emphasized three aspects of the rule of law :No one can be punished or made to suffer except for a breach of law proved in an ordinary court.No one is above the law and everyone is equal before the law regardless of social, economic, or political status.The rule of law includes the results of judicial decisions determining the rights of private persons.US Declaration of IndependenceThe opening of the United States Declaration of Independence, written by Thomas Jefferson in 1776, states as follows:We hold these truths to be selfevident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed;"Global citizenship in the United States" was a term used by former U.S. President Barack Obama in 2008 in a speech in Berlin.Social movementsWorld citizen"World citizen" redirects here. For other uses, see World citizen (disambiguation).World Citizen flag by Garry DavisWorld Citizen badgeIn general, a world citizen is a person who places global citizenship above any nationalistic or local identities and relationships. An early expression of this value is found in Diogenes of Sinope (c. 412 B.C.; mentioned above), a Cynic philosopher in Ancient Greece. Of Diogenes it is said: "Asked where he came from, he answered: 'I am a citizen of the world (kosmopolitês)'". This was a groundbreaking concept because the broadest basis of social identity in Greece at that time was either the individual citystate or the Greeks (Hellenes) as a group. The Tamil poet Kaniyan Poongundran wrote in Purananuru, "To us all towns are one, all men our kin." In later years, political philosopher Thomas Paine would declare, "my country is the world, and my religion is to do good." Today, the increase in worldwide globalization has led to the formation of a "world citizen" social movement under a proposed world government. In a nonpolitical definition, it has been suggested that a world citizen may provide value to society by using knowledge acquired across cultural contexts. Many people also consider themselves world citizens, as they feel at home wherever they may go.Albert Einstein described himself as a world citizen and supported the idea throughout his life, famously saying "Nationalism is an infantile disease. It is the measles of mankind." World citizenship has been promoted by distinguished people including Garry Davis, who lived for 60 years as a citizen of no nation, only the world. Davis founded the World Service Authority in Washington, DC, which sells World Passports, a fantasy passport to world citizens. In 1956 Hugh J. Schonfield founded the Commonwealth of World Citizens, later known by its Esperanto name "Mondcivitana Respubliko", which also issued a world passport; it declined after the 1980s.The Baháʼí Faith promotes the concept through its founder's proclamation (in the late 19th century) that "The Earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens." As a term defined by the Baháʼí International Community in a concept paper shared at the 1st session of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development, New York, U.S.A. on 14–25 June 1993. "World citizenship begins with an acceptance of the oneness of the human family and the interconnectedness of the nations of 'the earth, our home.' While it encourages a sane and legitimate patriotism, it also insists upon a wider loyalty, a love of humanity as a whole. It does not, however, imply abandonment of legitimate loyalties, the suppression of cultural diversity, the abolition of national autonomy, nor the imposition of uniformity. Its hallmark is 'unity in diversity.' World citizenship encompasses the principles of social and economic justice, both within and between nations; nonadversarial decision making at all levels of society; equality of the sexes; racial, ethnic, national and religious harmony; and the willingness to sacrifice for the common good. Other facets of world citizenship—including the promotion of human honour and dignity, understanding, amity, cooperation, trustworthiness, compassion and the desire to serve—can be deduced from those already mentioned."MundializationPhilosophically, mundialization (French, mondialisation) is seen as a response to globalization's "dehumanisation through  planetarisation" (Teilhard de Chardin quoted in Capdepuy 2011). An early use of mondialisation was to refer to the act of a city or a local authority declaring itself a "world citizen" city, by voting a charter stating its awareness of global problems and its sense of shared responsibility. The concept was promoted by the selfdeclared World Citizen Garry Davis in 1949, as a logical extension of the idea of individuals declaring themselves world citizens, and promoted by Robert Sarrazac, a former leader of the French Resistance who created the Human Front of World Citizens in 1945.The first city to be officially mundialised was the small French city of Cahors (only 20,000 in 2006), the capital city of the Département of Lot in central France, on 20 July 1949. Hundreds of cities mundialised themselves over a few years, most of them in France, and then it spread internationally, including to many German cities and to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In less than a year, ten General Councils (the elected councils of the French "Départements"), and hundreds of cities in France covering 3.4 million inhabitants voted mundialisation charters. One of the goals was to elect one delegate per million inhabitants to a People's World Constitutional Convention given the already then historical failure of the United Nations in creating a global institution able to negotiate a final world peace. To date, more than 1,000 cities and towns have declared themselves World cities, including Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, St. Louis, Philadelphia, Toronto, Hiroshima, Tokyo, Nivelles, and Königswinter.As a social movement, mundialization expresses the solidarity of populations of the globe and aims to establish institutions and supranational laws of a federative structure common to them, while respecting the diversity of cultures and peoples. The movement advocates for a new political organization governing all humanity, involving the transfer of certain parts of national sovereignty to a Federal World Authority, Federal World Government and Federal World Court. Basing its authority on the will of the people, supporters hope it could develop new systems to draw on the highest and best wisdom of all humanity, and solve major planetary problems like hunger, access to water, war, peacekeeping, pollution and energy. The mundialization movement includes the declaration of specified territory – a city, town, or state, for example – as world territory, with responsibilities and rights on a world scale. Currently, the nationstate system and the United Nations offer no way for the people of the world to vote for world officials or participate in governing our world. International treaties or agreements, while binding at the international level, are not automatically enforceable under the laws of every state. Mundialization seeks to address this lack by presenting a way to build, one city at a time, such a system of true World Law based upon the sovereignty of the whole.Earth AnthemAuthorpolitician Shashi Tharoor feels that an Earth Anthem sung by people across the world can inspire planetary consciousness and global citizenship among people.CriticismsNot all interpretations of global citizenship are positive. For example, Bhikhu Chotalal Parekh advocates what he calls globally oriented citizenship, and states, "If global citizenship means being a citizen of the world, it is neither practicable nor desirable." He argues that global citizenship, defined as an actual membership of a type of worldwide government system, is impractical and dislocated from one's immediate community. He also notes that such a world state would inevitably be "remote, bureaucratic, oppressive, and culturally bland." Parekh presents his alternative option with the statement: "Since the conditions of life of our fellow human beings in distant parts of the world should be a matter of deep moral and political concern to us, our citizenship has an inescapable global dimension, and we should aim to become what I might call a globally oriented citizen." Parekh's concept of globally oriented citizenship consists of identifying with and strengthening ties towards one's political regional community (whether in its current state or an improved, revised form), while recognizing and acting upon obligations towards others in the rest of the world.Michael Byers, a professor in Political Science at the University of British Columbia, questions the assumption that there is one definition of global citizenship, and unpacks aspects of potential definitions. In the introduction to his public lecture, the UBC Internationalization website states, "'Global citizenship' remains undefined. What, if anything, does it really mean? Is global citizenship just the latest buzzword?" Byers notes the existence of stateless persons, whom he remarks ought to be the primary candidates for global citizenship, yet continue to live without access to basic freedoms and citizenship rights. Byers does not oppose the concept of global citizenship, however, he criticizes potential implications of the term depending on one's definition of it, such as ones that provide support for the "ruthlessly capitalist economic system that now dominates the planet." Byers states that global citizenship is a "powerful term" because "people that invoke it do so to provoke and justify action," and encourages the attendees of his lecture to reappropriate it in order for its meaning to have a positive purpose, based on idealistic values.Neither criticism of global citizenship is anything new. Gouverneur Morris, a delegate to the Constitutional Convention (United States), criticized "citizens of the world" while he was on the floor of the convention on 9 August 1787:As to those philosophical gentlemen, those Citizens of the World as they call themselves, He owned he did not wish to see any of them in our public Councils. He would not trust them. The men who can shake off their attachments to their own Country can never love any other. These attachments are the wholesome prejudices which uphold all Governments, Admit a Frenchman into your Senate, and he will study to increase the commerce of France: an Englishman, and he will feel an equal bias in favor of that of England.Global citizenship is the umbrella term for social, political, environmental, and economic actions of globally minded individuals and communities on a worldwide scale. The term can refer to the belief that individuals are members of multiple, diverse, local and nonlocal networks rather than single actors affecting isolated societies. Promoting global citizenship in sustainable development will allow individuals to embrace their social responsibility to act for the benefit of all societies, not just their own.The concept of global citizenship is embedded in the Sustainable Development Goals though SDG 4: Insuring Inclusive and Quality Education for All and Promote Life Long Learning, which includes global citizenship as one of its targets. By 2030, the international community has agreed to ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including global citizenship. Universities have a responsibility to promote global citizenship by teaching their students that they are members of a large global community and can use their skills and education to contribute to that community.About the Hub: Ana G. Méndez University (UAGM) is a private nonprofit higher education institution founded over seven decades ago in Puerto Rico. UAGM provides quality education and promotes research with a vision of innovation and entrepreneurship. Through its three main campuses (Gurabo, Cupey, and Carolina) and eight offcampus centers located around the island, UAGM offers a variety of academic programs in different modalities and excellent services designed to fulfill the needs and expectations of a diverse student population. UAGM is the global center of UNAI to promote the exchange of knowledge and information regarding global citizenship. Its activities in this theme solidify its commitment to the development of global citizens by ensuring that its graduates are fully prepared to assume leadership roles and present solutions to humanity's challenges and needs.10Lesson 13 – GLOBAL CITIZENSHIPMODULE OVERVIEWFrom  the  beginning  of  this  work  text,  the  most  fundamental  ideas  ofglobalization  has  been  used  as  guides  in  order  to  point  out  what  thisphenomenon is all about. By this time, you might have already concocted yourown  definition of globalization.  Understanding that  peoples  of  the  world  arechained  together  by  infinite  transactions  and  interconnectivities  in  a  waysuggests  an  implied  responsibility  to  look  out  for  one  another.  The  muchdebated climate change and its fallouts are now a staggering reality. Its effectsexcuses  no  one  –  not  even  people  from  the  socalled  highly  industrializedcountries.  A  few  too  many  debates  have  already been  done  to  identify  theculprits for this massive destruction. We need not add to the long list of endlessrebuttals for what we are in dire need of are actions and solutions that wouldturn things around. MODULE LEARNING OBJECTIVESAt the end of the lesson, the students will be able to:•Articulate a personal definition of Global Citizenship •Appreciate the ethnical obligations of global citizenship.What is Global Citizenship? It  is  a  way  of  living  that  recognizes  our  world  is  an  increasinglycomplex web of connections and interdependencies. One in whichour  choices  and  actions  may  have  repercussions  for  people  andcommunities locally, nationally or internationally.Is  an  individual  who  is  aware  of  an  firmly  understands  theinterdependence system of societies and their relative position inthat arena. A Global Citizen is someone who:is aware of the wider world and has a sense of their own role as a world citizenrespects and values diversityhas an understanding of how the world worksis outraged by social injusticeparticipates in the community at a range of levels, from the local to the global1STUDY GUIDE FOR MODULE NO. ___FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITYis willing to act to make the world a more equitable and sustainable placetakes responsibility for their actions.To be effective Global Citizens, young people need to be flexible, creative and proactive. They need to be able to solve problems, make decisions, think critically, communicate ideas effectively and work well within teams and groups.These skills and attributes are increasingly recognized as being essential to succeed in other areas of 21st century life too, including many workplaces. These skills and qualities cannot be developed without the use of active learningmethods through which pupils learn by doing and by collaborating with others.Jerome S. Bruner said, “Education must be not only a transmission of culturebut also a provider of alternative views of the world and a strengthener of skillsto implore them.” A global citizen is a person who recognizes being part of an unfolding globalcommunity and that individual conduct and behavior act as the building blocksof  a  community’s  culture.  Nowadays,  forces  of  globalization  such  as  theinternet, politics, and religion guide individuals to identify themselves as globalcitizens living in a world system. With the technology, transportation, and massmedia, our ability to establish linkages and connect with people in distant placesis  enforced  and  magnified.  We  feel  empathy  and  sorrow  for  the  victims  ofhumanitarian catastrophes, civil conflicts, and famine in other countries halfwayacross the world. We are educated on how elevated the problem is with regardsto the oceans of pollutions we have collectively spawned. Deep seated emotionslike anger surface amidst terror attacks as images of defenseless children fill ourtelevision screens. A sense of belongingness that was first attributed to our countrymen begins toextend allowing the entry of nonnationals into our hearts and minds. Why is Global Citizenship education needed?"Education must be not only a transmission of culture but also a provider of alternative views of the world and a strengthener of skills to explore them" Jerome S BrunerWith the interconnected and interdependent nature of our world, the global is not ‘out there’; it is part of our everyday lives, as we are linked to others on every continent:socially and culturally through the media and telecommunications, and through travel and migrationeconomically through tradeenvironmentally through sharing one planetpolitically through international relations and systems of regulation.2FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITYThe opportunities our fastchanging ‘globalised’ world offers young people are enormous. But so too are the challenges. Young people are entitled to an education that equips them with the knowledge, skills and values they need in order to embrace the opportunities and challenges they encounter, and to create the kind of world that they want to live in. An education that supports their development as Global Citizens.The active, participatory methods of Education for Global Citizenship and Sustainable Development help young people to learn how decisions made by people in other parts of the world affect our lives, just as our decisions affect thelives of others. Education for Global Citizenship and Sustainable Development also promotes pupil participation in the learning process and in decisionmaking for the following reasons:Everything done in school sends out messages, so we need to exemplify the values we wish to promote. If we wish to affirm beliefs about the equality of all human beings and the importance of treating everyone fairly and with respect, we need to ensure that learning processes, and relationships between pupils and teachers, reflect and reinforce these values.Research shows that in more democratic schools pupils feel more in control of their learning, and the quality of teaching, learning and behaviour is better.The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child affirms the right of children to have their opinions taken into account on matters that affect them.What does it look like in the classroom?"Education is not a preparation for life, it is life itself." John DeweyEducation for Global Citizenship deals with issues of global interdependence, diversity of identities and cultures, sustainable development, peace & conflict and inequities of power, resources & respect.These issues are addressed in the classroom through a wide and evolving variety of participatory teaching and learning methodologies, including structured discussion and debate, roleplay, ranking exercises, and communitiesof enquiry. Such active methods are now established as good practice in education, and are not unique to global citizenship. Curriculum for Excellence has at its core a commitment to improved student participation in order to develop the four capacities: successful learners, confident individuals, responsible citizens and effective contributors.It is crucial to be aware that, far from promoting one set of answers or values or attitudes, education for global citizenship encourages children and young people to explore, develop and express their own values and opinions. (Always requiring too that they listen to and respect other people's points of view.) This is an important step towards children and young people making informed 3FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITYchoices as to how they exercise their own rights and their responsibilities to others.It is also vital that teachers at all levels do not approach education for global citizenship with the feeling that they must have all the answers – impossible anyway in such a fast changing world. The role of the teacher is to enable pupilsto find out about their world for themselves and to support them as they learn to assess evidence, negotiate and work with others, solve problems and make informed decisions.. *please refer in the Worktext in the Contemporary WorldLEARNING ACTIVITY 1Name: _______________________________________ Score: _________________Course: ______________________________________ Date: __________________LocalGlobal IssuesDirections: As part of an interdependent and interconnected global society, one of ourduty is to become aware of the atrocities that is plaguing the world. Global issues are not found beyond our nation’s borders – it is here. For this chapter, students will be asked to draft a proposal on how to solutions global problem like pollution, poverty, and food insecurity within their community. Drafted proposals will be presented in class. PROPOSAL GUIDELINESSample Project Proposal OutlineSection 1: Project InformationThis section intends to provide a highlevel picture  of  the  project as well asconvey the most critical project details.Include the following in this section:Name of the Organization: (e.g. KMAP, EDUC. CIRCLE, ETC.)Project Title:Project  Summary:  (What  is  the  project  all  about?  Who  are  the  targetbeneficiaries? Where will it be conducted? other relevant information.)Project Timeframe:Project Contacts (any individuals involved in the project)Section 2: Project SummaryThe goal of this section is to present the reasons for doing this project as well asstating all of the objectives. In this section in particular, it is very important towrite concisely and clearly. Some project professionals even suggest writing theproject summary last.4FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITYBefore you begin writing, you should be able to answer the following questions.Why are you doing this project?What will you be doing?How will you be doing it?Who will be doing it?Where will it be done?How long will it take?How much will it cost?Project  Background This  section  of  the  proposal  requires  a  few  succinctsentences that clarify the problem your proposal is tackling. Here, it is critical toexplain the current state of the problem and why your audience should careabout solving it. Make sure to include references and statistics in this section.Best practice is to keep this no longer than 1 page.Project Objectives Use this section of the proposal to explicitly list the goalsthat the project is trying to achieve.Section 3: Project MethodologyThe project methodology section of a proposal is where you detail the plan forhow the objectives mentioned in the previous section will be achieved. This isthe first section of the proposal that details the course of action to remedy theproblem and is meant to prove that adequate research has been done for thisdecision. To start, outline the methodology being used, the population beingaddressed, and establish the process for reaching your objectives.This section is typically broken into three parts:The Project Approach Summary Use a few sentences to describe the overallapproach to the project. This includes how the team will be organized, whattools will be used, and how changes will be addressed during execution.Task  Breakdown and  Time  Estimates This is the  section of the proposalwhere a detailed project schedule is presented. To start, make a list of tasks thatare required for the project as well as an estimation of the hours required tocomplete each one. From there, you can take a look at your resource pool andallocate your team accordingly. The purpose of this section is to establish thetime and steps it will take to  achieve the solution, as well as the resourcesinvolved in each section. Here is where you start to see ideas turn into action. Aproject proposal will often include a gantt chart outlining the resources, tasks,and timeline.Project Deliverables This is where you list out all the deliverables you expectto  see  after  the  project  is  closed.  For  example,  this  could  be  products,information, or reports that you plan to deliver to a client. Ensure that eachdeliverable has an associated estimated delivery date.Section 4: Project Risk Management (This section will not be included,since idealistic HAHA)5FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITYThis section is dedicated to managing change during project execution. Clientsknow that a proposal rarely covers everything that is required to achieve thegiven project, so change management techniques are required. Establish howyou will monitor project success throughout its entire life cycle to show clientsthat when and if change occurs, the project will not go haywire.This section is broken into two parts:Risk Management Plan A detailed plan of action to minimize the chance of riskor change during the project lifecycle.Risk Register A lineitem list of risks and potential counter efforts that will beused to counteract these risks.Section 5: Project CostsThis section is dedicated to estimating the overall cost of the proposed project.This section is broken into three major parts:Project  Budget This  should  be  a  detailed,  lineitem  budget  broken  up  bydifferent  project  categories,  such  as  travel,  salary,  or  supplies.  Ensure  alloverhead or indirect costs are also included in the budget.Budget Narrative This is a brief list of commentaries on the budget if anyfurther clarification or justification is needed.Section 6: ConclusionThe conclusion section of a project proposal intends to be a brief review of allthe points already discussed. This is your last chance to win over your audience,so  ensure  that  you  incorporate  the  most  important  evidence  to  receiveapproval.  This  is  also  the  final  moment  to  prove  you  have  adequatelyresearched all solutions and your proposed method is the best for business.*Adopted from https://www.mavenlink.com/resources/projectproposalRubric:Excellent15 pointsGood1410pointsFair95pointsPoor40 pointContentThe  proposal  providedvery  clear  informationabout  the  project.Showed  very  clearoutline  and  lacking  nosection. The proposal providedclear  informationabout  the  project.Showed  clear  outlineand lacking one to twoportion/ section. The  proposalprovided  vagueinformation  aboutthe  project.Showed  vagueoutline  andlacking  three  tofour  portions/sections.The  proposal  didnot  provide  clearinformation  aboutthe project. Did notshow  clear  outlineand  lacking  fiveportions/ sections.Excellent5 pointsGood4 pointsFair32 pointsPoor1 pointPowerpointThe  powerpointpresentation  greatlyThe  powerpointpresentationTried to present ina  good  way  toNo  efforts  orcreativity  is  visible6FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 5 – The Contemporary World Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITYPresentation enhanced understandingthe project and showedcreativity  inpresentation.enhancedunderstanding  theproject  and  showedcreativity  inpresentation.enhanceunderstanding theproject  butsomehow  lacksthe  effort  inpresenting  in  acreative way. in the video. SUMMARYThroughout human history, we have always organized ourselves into groups and communities that share similar values, ideas, culture, and an overall identity. This, in turn, helped and still helps shape our needs economically, politically, religiously and socially. But in the 21st century, asthe world has less physical and communication barriers, we’ve seen a rise in higher demand for global engagement, resulting in global citizens who crave a sense of belonging to a world community rather than a small, localone.  