Purposive CommunicationCommunication processes. principles, and ethicsCommunication is a very interesting topic to be discussed, previously those confusions along with the term had finally answered, and another figure and body of knowledge were added to the memory bank such terms were creatively elaborated like the verbal communication, nonverbal communication, the types of communication such as intrapersonal, interpersonal, extended, organizational, intercultural, and the purpose and style of communication. In a nutshell, the terms are crucial to restate and to know the function in the field of communication.You learned about the types of communication mode, context and purpose, and style. In this lesson, you will review the nature of the communication process and some important communication models. Why is it important that you know the communication models? You will realize their importance because they will help you understand how a communication process works.A model is often abstract. It is a representation of a realworld phenomenon applied to different forms. The interplay of variables in the model is represented graphically. Try to assess later what comprises the communication models and what variables are common to each of them.There are many conceptual models for human communication but you will be exposed to only four. These are Aristotle’s model, Laswell’s model, ShannonWeaver’s model; and David Berlo’s Model of CommunicationAristotle’s Communication ModelAristotle, a great philosopher initiative the earliest mass communication model called “Aristotle’s Model of Communication”. He proposed a model before 300 B.C who found the importance of the audience role in the communication chain in his communication model. This model is more focused on public speaking than interpersonal communication.Aristotle Model of Communication is formed with 5 basic elements(i) Speaker, (ii) Speech, (iii) Occasion, (iv) Audience and (v) Effect.Aristotle advises speakers to build speech for different audiences at a different time (occasion) and for different effects.Note that the speaker variable here is very important. Without the speaker, there will be no speech to be produced. Depending on the profile of the speaker adjusts his or her speech. Some considerations for the audience demographics are age, sex, background, culture, race, religion, gender, social and economic status, and political orientation or inclination, among others. Even beliefs, views, and attitudes also play an important role when talking about audience consideration since oftentimes, the audience brings these with them when they decode the message in any given situation.In 1948, Harold Dwight Laswell describes communication as being focused on the following W’s: who says what in which channel to home and with what effect as seen in the model below:The whole process of communication begins with the communicator ( who ) sending out the message ( what ) using a medium( in which channel ) for a receiver ( to whom) experiencing an effect afterward. The process may be analyzed through the content sent, the medium used, as well as the effect on the rose plant of the message.While this model is similar to Aristotle’s in the sense that both are linear and have the same components, Laswell also differs in that there are five variables involved with the addition of two: medium and effect.Claude Elwood Shannon and Warren Weaver’s model of communication was introduced in 1949, a year after Laswell’s for Bell Laboratories.This model is specially designed to develop effective communication between the sender and the receiver. Also, they find factors which affecting the communication process called “Noise”. At first, the model was developed to improve the Technical communication. Later it’s widely applied in the field of Communication.The model deals with various concepts like Information source, transmitter, Noise, channel, message, receiver, channel, information destination, encode, and decode.David Kenneth Berlo (1929 — February 23, 1996) was an American communications theorist. He taught at Michigan State University and later served as president of Illinois State University. He proposed the:BERLO’S COMMUNICATION MODELBerlo’s SMCR Model of Communication represents the process of communication in its simplest form. The acronym SMCR stands for Sender, Message, Channel, and Receiver. Berlo’s SMCR Model of Communication describes the different components that form the basic process of communication. Because this communication tool also emphasise the coding and decoding of the message, it can be used for more efficient communication. (Janse, 2019)Berlo’s model follows the SMCR model. This model is not specific to any particular communication. Berlo’s model includes a number of factors under each of the elements:Communication skills — It is the skill of the individual to communicate. For example, the ability to read, write, speak, listen, etc.Attitudes — This includes attitudes towards the audience, subject, and towards oneself. For example, for the student, the attitude is to learn more and for teachers, it is to help teach.Knowledge– Communicating also means that the person needs to be knowledgeable about the subject or topic. For e.g. a teacher needs to know about the subject in detail that he or she teaches so that they can communicate properly such that the students understand here.Note: It refers, not to the general knowledge, but to the knowledge of the subject that the person is communicating and their familiarity with it.Social system — The social system includes the various aspects of society like values, beliefs, culture, religion, and a general understanding of society. It is where the communication takes place.For example, classrooms differ from country to country just like people’s behaviors and how they communicate, etc.Note: We can communicate only to the extent that the social system allows. When we communicate, we take the social system into account.Culture: The culture of a particular society also comes under the social system.According to this model, people can communicate only if the above requirements are met in the proper or adequate proportion.Encoder: The sender of the message, from where the message originates, is referred to as the encoder. So the source encodes the message here.MessageContent — The body of a message, from the beginning to the end, comprises its content. For example, whatever the class teacher teaches in the class, from beginning to end, is the content of the message.Elements — It includes various things like language, gestures, body language, etc. They constitute all the elements of a particular message. Any content is accompanied by some elements.Treatment — It refers to the packing of the message and the way in which the message is conveyed or the way in which it is passed on or delivered.Note: When there is too much treatment, communication will not go smoothly.Structure– The structure of the message refers to how it is arranged; the way people structure the message into various parts.Note: The message is the same, but if the structure is not properly arranged then the receiver will not understand the message.Code– The code of the message refers to the means through which it is sent and in what form. It could be, for example, language, body language, gestures, music, etc. Even culture is a code. Through this, people give and receive messages and communication takes place.Note: Only when the code is clear, the message will be clear. The wrong usage may lead to misinterpretation.Channel– It refers to the five sense organs. The following are the five senses:§ Hearing§ Seeing§ Touching§ Smelling§ TastingCommunication occurs through one or more of these channels.Hearing: The use of ears to receive the message. For example, orally transmitted messages, interpersonal communication, etc.Seeing: Visual channels, for example, Watching television so the message is conveyed through the scene/film.Touching: The sense of touch can be used as a channel to communicate. For example, we touch, buy food, hugging our loved ones, etc.Smelling: Smell also can be a channel to communicate. For example, perfumes, food, fragrances, etc. Charred smell communicates something is burning. People can deduct which food is being cooked by its smell etc.Tasting: The tongue is a muscular organ used in the act of eating and tasting food. For example, while food is being shared, communication can happen regarding its taste.Note: Despite not mentioning a medium, we need to assume that as communication is taking place, channels can be any of the 5 senses or combination.Decoder: The person who receives the message and decodes it is referred to a decoder.Receiver: The receiver needs to think about all the contents and elements of the source, so as to communicate/responds to the sender effectively.;Berlo’s model believes that for effective communication to take place, the source and the receiver need to be on the same level. Only then communication will happen or take place properly. Hence, the source and the receiver should be similar.For example, if the communication skill of the source is good, then the receiver should have equally good listening skills.It cannot be said that the receiver does not receive the whole message because even though he may receive it, but may not be able to interpret its meaning. For effective communication, the source and the receiver need to be on the same level.Note: Selfimage differs from person to person. For communication, the person should consider the receiver, speak accordingly, and give them what they need.Criticism of Berlo’s SMCR model of communication:1. There is a lack of feedback. The effects are practically unknown.2. It does not mention the barriers to communication.3. There is no room for noise.4. It is a rather complex model.5. It is a linear model of communication.6. It requires people to be on the same level for effective communication to happen. However, that rarely happens in everyday life.7. The main drawback of the model is that it omits the usage of sixth sense as a channel of communication, which is an asset to human beings (thinking, understanding, analyzing, etc.)GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATIONSince communication is a two — way process, it is important that you know the principles to be observed to make it effective. For both oral and written communication, you should be able to apply the following principles:1. Know your purpose in communicating.2. Know your audience.3. Know your topic.4. Adjust your speech or writing to the context of the situation.5. Work on the feedback given to you.PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE ORAL COMMUNICATION1. Be clear about your purpose. You should know by heart your objective in communicating.2. Be complete with the message you deliver. Make sure that your claims are supported by facts and essential information.3. Be concise. You do not need to be verbose or were they with your statements. Brevity in speech is a must.4. Be natural with your delivery. Punctuate important words with appropriate gestures and movements. Exude a certain degree of confidence if you do not feel confident enough.5. Be specific and timely with your feedback. Inputs are most helpful when provided on time.7 C’S PRINCIPLE OF EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION1. Be clear2. Be concise3. Be concrete4. Be correct5. Be coherent6. Be complete7. Be courteousETHICS OF COMMUNICATIONBe guided by the following to achieve ethical communication:1. Establish an effective value system that will pave the way for the development of your integrity as a person. One’s behavior and decision making style affect the intern in the operations of an organization.2. Provide complete and accurate information. Whether it is needed or not the data should always be contextualized correctly.3. Disclose vital information adequately and appropriately. Never conceal or hide information that is necessary for purposes of transparency.WHAT gs COMMUNICATION? Communication is the process ofpeople reacting to the variousattitudes and behaviors of otherindividuals. It allows us to receive, transmit, andretain messages and information.TYPES OF COMMUNICAT!ONverbalnonVerbalVerbalIntrapersonal1.Communication2. InterpersonalCommunication3. PublicCommunication4. MassCommunicationonVerbalSilenceBody LanguageFacial ExpressionParalanguageTouchSpace and DistanceClothes and Personal AppearanceSymbolsFORMAL COMMUNICATIONIt involves the use of public speaking or masscommunication, a combination of both verbaland nonverbal messages.INFORMAL COMMUNICAT!ONIt involves interpersonal and smallgroup communication where people canbe at ease and be more comfortable.FUNCTIONS OFCOMMUNICATIONInforming and conveying the messagePersuading ideas, opinions, and suggestionsIntegrating to achieve the goalsCreating and establishing relationshipsHelping in decision makingReducing misunderstandingCHAPTER 1COMMUNICATION PROCESSES,PRINCIPLES AND ETHICSLESSON 1:THE COMMUNICATION PROCESSThe Nature of Communication Communication is derived from the Latin word “common” which means,“belonging to many” and “communico” means to confer with others. It is the mutual exchange of information, ideas, and understanding by any effective means. In other words, communication is a process by which people send messages or exchange ideas or thoughts with one another in a verbal or nonverbal manner. Communication is the interaction of words from a society and thus gives pleasure and an increased understanding of life. ELEMENTS OF COMMUNICATION1. SENDER (encoder) The sender also known as the encoder decides on the message to be sent and the best/most effective way that it can be sent. It is the sender’s job to CONCEPTUALIZE (form a concept of idea).2. MEDIUM (message) The medium is the immediate form which a message takes. For example, a message may be communicated in the form of a letter, an email or face to face in the form of a speech Medium is also known as theMESSAGE.3. CHANNEL The channel is responsible for the delivery of the chosenmessage form.For example: post office, internet, television and radio4. RECEIVER (decoder/listener) The receiver or the decoder is responsible for extracting/decoding meaningfrom the message. The receiver is also responsible for providing feedback to the sender. It is his/her job to INTERPRET.5. FEEDBACK (response) This is important as it determines whether or not the decoder grasped the intended meaning and whether the communication was successful6. CONTEXT The context of any communication act is the environment surrounding it. It is also known as the setting of the communication.7. NOISE (also called interference) This is the factor that inhibitsthe conveyance of a message. Noise is anything that interferes with communication.Physical noise is interference that is external to both speaker and listener; it hampers the physical transmission of the signal or message.  Examples of physical noise: Loud party at the neighbors while you’re trying to record. Irritating hum of your computer, air conditioner, or electric fan. Physiological noise is created by barriers within the sender or receiver. Examples of physiological noise on the encoder’s side are: articulation problems, mumbling, talking too fast, talking too slow, forgetting topause, and forgetting to breathe. An example of physiological noise on the listener’s side: hearing problems. Maybe thelistener can’t hear high tones as clearly as they used to. For some, low tones are the problem. Their difficulty in literally hearing words and sounds becomes physiological noise.Psychological noise is mental interference in the speaker or listener.Wandering thoughts, preconceived ideas, and sarcasm can be a kind of psychological noise.Semantic noise is interference created when the speaker and listener have different meaning systems.The communication process is dynamic, continuous, irreversible, and contextual. It is not possible to participate in any element of the process without acknowledging the existence and functioning of the other elements.LESSON 2:PRINCIPLES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF COMMUNICATION1. Communication is SchematadrivenIt begins with your self, you begin with what you have already stocked in your brain or with what you have already known or understood about the subject matter of the communicative act. Transmitted messages become understandable or meaningful because of your background knowledge about the messages.2. Communication is an Interpretive ActThe only person who knows the exact or full meaning of the messagetransmitted is the sender or speaker.Being the creator or source of the ideas, he has the absolute knowledge about his message.It was called interpretive act because the role of the receiver or the listener is just to interpret, infer, or guess the meaning of things appealing to his sense of hearing.3. Communication does not guarantee a direct or automatic link between two mindsThis form of knowledge becomes meaningful only to others when you initiate communication with them.4. Communication is active, powerful, or forcefulCommunication is said to be active because messages have varied effects on all participants in any communicative event. It engages speakers and listeners inaction of giving and receiving information.Communication is powerful and forceful for it elicits different meanings or reactions; these messages are prone to changes. Subjected to the changeable and continued existence of the world, communication is dynamic ( a process or system characterized by constant change) as life that goes onand on like a river. nothing remains permanent or fixed in the world of communication. 5. Communication is symbolicSymbols, signs, or marks like letters, words, sentences, graphs, pictures, and other concrete objects representor stand for ideas that you intend to convey verbally.For nonverbal communication, you resort bodily actions (gestures, eye movements, posture, facial expressions) voice quality, space and time elements to stand for the ideas you want to express.6. Communication always results in somethingIt refers to two or more persons participate in any communicative act. The first expresses or sends a message; the second responds or reacts to the message.7. Communication is irreversibleYou are free to talk to about anything under the sun. but once you utter something, the things you have said remain as it is susceptible to different interpretations or meanings.8. Communication is contextualAn exchange of views, ideas, or feelings doesn't only involve the sender and receiver, but also other aspects of the communication setting like type, place, topic, occasion, purpose, and manner of communication.9. Communication is developmental or progressiveTo communicate ideas to go throughthe different stages of language learning that begins from birth to elementary, high school and college levels. it is not a onetime learning towards communicative competence.10. Communication is a progressSeveral stages of communication take place when people exchange orshare ideas with one another. Each stage involves elements with different functions.11. Communication is ethicalAny communication event is expected to apply rules, moral values, and beliefs agreed upon by societal members. Guided by these standards determined by the culturalgroup you belong to, your community communication becomesethical, good or desirable.12. Communication is influenced by mediaand technologyNow, you are in the era of knowledge explosion or modern technology. This period is characterized by an instant global exchange of knowledge, services and technology. using modern electronic communication devices, an exchange of ideas occurs just in seconds or minutes regardless of the distance between or among the participants. With the speedy turn out of varied modern media and devices of communication like the email, cellphone, webcam, internet and other computerrun gadgets find interaction with anyone in any corner of the world easily and quickly.LESSON 3:COMMUNICATION CUES: VERBAL AND NONVERBAL LANGUAGE Verbal LanguageVerbal language consists of symbolssuch as letters, words, and other marks that you need to subject to language or grammar rules for a coherent or organized means of understanding or expressing ideas. this verbal or spoken language becomes a written language once you put on paper or any surface the marks or prints symbolizing or representing the ideas you intend to convey or have spoken to others.Verbal symbols refer to the use of speaker language (Antonio, et.al., p. 30) Nonverbal LanguageAs with other aspects of communication, norms for nonverbal communication vary from country to country and also among cultures within a particular country. Some nonverbal communication behaviors appear to be somewhat innate because they are universally recognized. Such universal signals are the “eyebrow flash” of recognition when we see someone we know and the “open hand” and the “palm up” gestures that signals aperson would like something or needs help (Martin & Nakayama, 2010). Smiling is also a universal nonverbal behavior, but the triggersthat lead a person to smile vary fromculture to culture. The expansion of media, particularly from the United States and other Western countries around the world, is leading to more nonverbal similarities among cultures, but the biggest cultural difference in nonverbal communication occur within the categories of eye contact, touch, and personal space (Pease & Pease, 2004). Nonverbal communication like other forms of communication is influenced by context and varies among individuals within a particular cultural group as well.The idea you want to convey through this nonverbal communication are symbolized or represented, not by words but by the following nonverbal nonverbal language symbols:1. Body MovementsAlso known as body kinetics.Big and small movements of your body like gestures, facial expressions, posture, and eye behavior expresses meanings.Kinesics derived from the Greek term “kinesis” meaning “motion” which refers to the study of body movements.2. ParalanguageRefers to the ways of saying something These are extra sounds that go withyour spoken words and a study of these special sounds accompanying your words iscalled Paralinguistic.Examples of paralanguage are the following:a) Speaking voice produced by your voice’s❏highness and lowness (Pitch)❏loudness or softness (Volume)❏speediness and slowness (Duration/Rate)❏rising and falling (Intonation)❏Pleasing or unpleasing sound  shrillnes, huskiness, breathiness, mellowness, etc.(Quality)b) Vocalization or voice’s special usage like crying, giggling, moaning, growling, yawning, sighing and groaning.c) vocal pauses or boosters like ash...ugh...umm...oh...shh...oops...many others.3. TimeThere are two kinds of people based on time; punctual and lateYour willingness, hesitance, or hatred to wait for a long time speaksof your trait of patience or impatience. Likewise, this reflects your manner of valuing your relationship with the object of your waiting. Your trait of optimism is also proven by your fondness of talking about your goals, dreams, orplans for the future. Chronemics is the term that refers to your act of studying the impact or effect of timeon your behavior.4. ProxemicsIt concerns the way a person uses the space around him as well as the distance where he stands. a. Intimate distanceIn this situation, people are indirect contact with each other or are in no more than 18 inches apart as in mother and child.b. Personal distancePeople may stay anywhere from 18 inches to 4 feet from each other as in casual and personal conversations.This distance is close enoughto see each other’s reactions but fair enough not to encroach on the person’s intimate distance.c. Social distanceWhen talking to persons unknown to the speaker, he must keep a distance of 4 to 12 feet. Mostly done in impersonal business and social gatherings or interviews which is expectedto be more formal.d. Public distanceIt is the distance of more than 12 feet typically used inpublic speaking. There is a need for the speaker to speak loudly and to use exaggerated gestures for theaudience to understand whathe is trying to convey. Furthermore, there is a necessity for the availability of gadgets to aid in the sound projection.Haptics is the term used to refer to your acts of studying the effects of your touch on people5. Physical Appearance and Object LanguageMeanings in this kind of nonverbal language, are symbolized or represented by dressing styles, bodytypes, body appearances like size or shape, architectural designs or structures, art objects, graphic materials, lightning effects, aromaticor smelly objects, and other environmental factors that influence or affect any communicative event. CHAPTER 1: COMMUNICATION PROCESSES, PRINCIPLES AND ETHICSCOMMUNICATION Derived from the Latin words con which means “with”, munus which means “a business”,communis which means “common” and communico which means “to confer”. It is therefore defined as the process of accomplishing a goal According to Sanchez (2017), effective communication is the most critical component of totalquality management. described as the transfer of information, thoughts or ideas to create a shared understandingbetween a sender and a receiver. It is a dynamic, twoway process Therefore, communication is the process of transferring information from one point to anotherwhere the receiverTYPES OF COMMUNICATION1. Verbal Communication  uses words or symbols. It is done through speaking or writing.*Spoken communication can be done through facetoface interaction, through mobiles orcomputers, public speaking, etc.*Written communication can be written, digitized or printed.*Verbal communication is focused on how messages are portrayed.Factors that affect verbal communication:1. Tone of voice2. Use of descriptive words3. Emphasis on certain phrases4. Volume of voice* According to Mehrabian (2017), 55% of information gathered when people are speaking to eachother in person is determined through body language, 38% of the information relayed in aconversation through tone of voice, and only 7% of the words that are spoken are used tounderstand what is being said.*In verbal communication, meanings are also taken from nonverbal forms and are better known asnonverbal cues.*Nonverbal cues  make the message clearer and give the listener an indication in what way theinformation should be received.*These are similar to nonverbal type of communication; but these are used to accompany verbalcommunication.Examples of Nonverbal Cues:1. Intonation2. Facial expressions3. Pause4. Hand gestures5. Use of visuals6. Body movement7. Eye contact2. Nonverbal Communication  sending of message using methods other than spoken language. Itmay be intentional or unintentional.According to Tidwell (2016) there are two kinds of nonverbal communication:1. Nonverbal messages produced by the body2. Nonverbal messages produced by the broad setting such as time, space and silenceExamples of nonverbal communication:touch glance eye contact vocal nuance proximityfacial expressions gestures volume pause (silence) intonationdress posture smell context formality*In highcontext cultures, the manner of saying the word is more important than the word itself.Highcontext cultures  those who communicate in ways that are implicit and rely heavily on context.These are the collectivistic in nature.Lowcontext cultures  those who communicate in ways that are explicit. These are theindividualistic in nature.Uses of nonverbal communication:1. Used to repeat the verbal message.2. Often used to accent a verbal message.3. Often complements the verbal message but may also contradict.4. Regulate interactions.5. May substitute for the verbal message, especially if it is blocked by noise or interruption.ELEMENTS OF THE COMMUNICATION PROCESS1. Sender  a person, group or organization who initiates communication. Also called asencoder, source, speaker, writer or communicator. The sender is responsible for the success ofthe communication. The sender’s experiences, attitudes, knowledge, skills, perceptions, andculture influence the message.2. Message  is the element transmitted in the communication process. The message should becoded by the sender in a way that it will be easily understood by the receiver.3. Channel  pathway or medium through which the message travels to reach its destination. Itmay be oral, written or visual. Each kind of channel has a specific use depending on themessage.Examples: Facetoface, through writing letters, social media, mobile phone call, etc4. Noise  a form of distortion, barrier or obstacle that occurs in any of the phases of the oralcommunication process. It may be visual, aural, physical or psychological in forms.Examples: inappropriate channel, incorrect grammar, inflammatory words, jargon,5. Receiver  the person who receives, understands, analyzes and interprets the message. Alsocalled as decoder, reader or listener. The receiver’s experiences, attitudes, knowledge, skills,perceptions, and culture influence the interpretation of the message. Successful communicationtakes place when the receiver correctly interprets the sender’s message. In giving the receiver’sresponse, the receiver then becomes the sender.6. Feedback  the receiver’s response that provides information to the sender. It shows whetherthe receiver understood the message or not. According to Bovee and Thill (1992), even the lackof response, is in a sense, a form of response. It is a very important element of the processbecause it makes the communication dynamic, twoway interactive event.7. Adjustment  it is done if the message is not clearly understood by the receiver.ASPECTS OF COMMUNICATIONThe importance of communication is related to various aspects.1. Communication is integrated in all parts of our lives.We communicate every minute and every second of our lives. And as we go through lifeeveryday, we use communication in all places we go to, in different parts of our lives.A. Academics According to researches, students who are good in writing and speaking performbetter not only in the English class, but also in other learning areas.B. Professional Employees who are better in communicating have the higher chance of gettinghired.C. Personal Having a vocabulary to name the communication phenomena in our livesincreases our ability to alter consciously our communication in order to achieveour goals and avoid miscommunication.D. Civic Civic engagement refers to working to make a difference in our communities byimproving the quality of life of community members.2. Communication meets needsCommunication is more than the transmission of information. We also communicate in order tosurvive our daytoday activities.A. Physical Needs  keep our brain and body functioningB. Instrumental Needs  instructing people, giving directionsC. Relational Needs  initiate, maintain or end a relationshipD. Identity Needs  people present their image through the way they communicate3. Communication is guided by culture and contextCulture  as defined by O’Neil (2006), it is the full range of learned human behavior patterns. Itincludes knowledge, belief, art, law, morals, customs, etc.Context  the circumstances that form the setting for an eventCulture and context influence how we deliver and how we understand messages.4. Communication is learned.The need to communicate and the ability to learn a language is innate. However, our manner ofcommunication varies from person to person. This is because communication is learned rather thaninnate.The Case of the Feral Children  children who were raised by animals; children who grew upisolated from human contact5. Communication has ethical implications.Communication ethics deals with reflecting and negotiating our actions based on what webelieve to be right or wrong.The Communication Process ModelISSUES IN COMMUNICATION1. Content  refers to the information and experiences that are provided to the receiver of thecommunication process.* The message must be presented in a language that makes a grammatical sense.* Words have different meanings and may be used or interpreted differently.* Therefore, content should be tailored or edited for the public to ensure effective communication.2. Process  refers to the way the message is presented or delivered.*The nonverbal forms that we use often cause messages to be misunderstood as we tend tobelieve what we see more than what we hear.*Therefore, we should be mindful of the nonverbal cues that accompany our verbalcommunication.3. Context  refers to the situation or environment in which your message is delivered.* If the sender is unaware of a specific context, the sender might say improper words or messages.* If the receiver is unaware of the context, the message might be interpreted incorrectly.* Therefore, it is important to assert and understand the context before saying something.“Context Clues”Example:1. If the weather is cold, I can watch movies all day.Context: what the speaker can do if the weather is coldWATCH (VERB)2. The Rolex watch of my uncle is expensive.Context: the expensive watch of the speaker’s uncleWATCH (NOUN)PRINCIPLES IN COMMUNICATIONPrinciples are guidelines we follow when we say or do something.1. Principle of Clarity  messages should be worded clearly. Messages should not be ambiguous orcan be interpreted in different ways. It should be straightforward so the receiver will easilyunderstand what the speaker is saying. It is always the responsibility of the sender to make themessage clear so that the receiver will understand the message correctly.2. Principle of Attention  the receiver’s attention should be drawn to the message to make thecommunication effective. In order to achieve successful communication, the receiver should belistening to the sender to understand the message. There are many distractor that may cause thereceiver to lose the focus on the message. Avoid any circumstances that may lead to the loss ofattention of the receiver.3. Principle of Feedback  there should be a feedback in communication in order for the sender toknow whether the message was clearly understood by the receiver. The feedback will also indicatewhether the sender needs to make adjustments on the message for the receiver to understand themessage.4. Principle of Informality  in academic or business setting, the language used is mainly formal.However, in circumstances where formal language fail to meet its goal, which is to make receiver/sunderstand the message, the sender should be flexible in switching to informal language to codethe message clearer. Informal communication is as important as formal communication.5. Principle of Consistency  communication should always be consistent with the policies, plans,programs and objectives of the organization and not in conflict with them. If leaders are notfollowing the rules, the subordinates will be confused.6. Principle of Timeliness  communication should be done in real time. It helps transactions to bedone fast.7. Principles of Adequacy  when communicating, information should be adequate and complete.Incomplete information may cause delay and confusion.COMMUNICATION ETHICSIt deals with the behavior of an individual or a group which is governed by their morals and in turnaffects communication.The National Communication Association (NCA) formulated the Credo for Ethical Communicationin November 1999. It reminds us that ethical communication is relevant across contexts and appliesto every channel of communication.1. Advocate truthfulness, accuracy, honesty and reason as essential to the integrity ofcommunication.2. Endorse freedom of expression, diversity of perspective, and tolerance of dissent to achieve theinformed and responsible decision making fundamental to a civil society.3. Strive to understand and respect other communicators before evaluating and responding to theirmessages.4. Promote access to communication resources and opportunities as necessary to fulfill humanpotential and contribute to the wellbeing of families, communities, and society.5. Promote communication climates of caring and mutual understanding that respect the uniqueneeds and characteristics of individual communicators.6. Condemn communication that degrades individuals and humanity through distortion,intimidation, coercion, and violence, and through the expression of intolerance and hatred.7. Commit to the courageous expression of personal convictions in pursuit of fairness and justice.8. Advocate sharing information, opinions and feelings when facing significant choices while alsorespecting privacy and confidentiality.9. Accept responsibility for the short and longterm consequences for our own communication andexpect the same of others.Ethics Resource Center (Free Word Press, 2017)Simple ThreePart Guide for Ethical Business Communication1. Be honest.2. Be respectful.3. Show sensitivity to cultural differences.Communication Ethics in the Academic Context1. Avoid plagiarism.The Instrument of Judicial Governance defines plagiarism as “the intentional representation ofanother person’s words, thoughts or ideas as one’s own.”2. Data gathered from participants for a research or study should be kept confidential at all times,unless given the permission of the participant.3. Students should always show respect to authorities in school.4. Transactions or communication plans should follow a protocol for their acceptance or approval.5. Never tell a lie or misrepresent facts to your teachers, classmates or any people. Communication process,principles, and ethicsCOMMUNICATION the act or process of communicating; fact of beingcommunicated. the imparting or interchange of thoughts, opinions,or information by speech, writing, or signs.ETHICS a system of moral principles deals with values relating to human conduct,with respect to the rightness and wrongness ofcertain actions and to the goodness and badnessof the motives and ends of such actions.The principle governing communication, the right and wrongaspects of it,the moralimmoral dimensions relevant toInterpersonal communication are called the ethics ofInterpersonal communication.Maintaining the correct balance between the speaking andlisteningthe legitimacy of fear and emotional appealdegree of criticism and praiseA death or an overdose of either of the factors could result inunfavourable consequences.The principle of honesty on both sides should be completelyapplied because any amount of insincerity from either thelistener or the speaker would not be prudent.FUNDAMENTALS OF ETHICALCOMMUNICATIONresponsible thinkingdecision makingdevelopment of relationships and communitiesContexts Cultures Channels MediaUNETHICAL COMMUNICATIONthreatens the quality of all communication andconsequently the wellbeing of individuals andthe society.PRINCIPLES OF ETHICALCOMMUNICATION advocate truthfulness, accuracy, honesty, andreason as essential to the integrity ofcommunication. endorse freedom of expression, diversity ofperspective, and tolerance of dissent toachieve the informed and responsible decisionmaking fundamental to a civil society. strive to understand and respect otherevaluating and communicators before responding to their messages.promote access to communication resources andopportunities as necessary to fulfill human potential andcontribute to the wellbeing of families, communities,and society.promote communication climates of caring and mutualunderstanding that respect the unique needs andcharacteristics of individual communicators.condemn communication that degrades individuals andhumanity through distortion, intimidation, coercion, andviolence, and through the expression of intolerance andhatred.Being committed to the courageous expressionof personal convictions in pursuit of fairness andjustice.advocate sharing information, opinions, andfeelings when facing significant choices whilealso respecting privacy and confidentiality.accept responsibility for the short and longtermconsequences for our own communication andexpect the same of others.Effective CommunicationLasswell  introduced an important modelLevels of communication identifiedfrom his experiences in the second worldwar, elements of which survive in moredeveloped modern models:1. Who: the source2. Says What: the message3. In Which Channel: through whatchannel or medium4. To Whom: the audience5. To What Effect: the desired effect?The Five wshas been furtherdeveloped and modernised and is now referred to as the'Five Ws' and this model has been widely used,particularly when managing change.However,addressing the 'Five Ws' is an essential element of allcommunication, getting this right is the first step in theprocess and is dependent upon what is required to becommunicated at the time.This is particularlyim ortant when mana in change in an or amsation.Laswell ModelLasswell states that in order to understand theprocess of mass communication one has tounderstand each of the stages. This model stresseson the effect räther than the message itself.Effect meansservable or measurable change In thesuggests that any change in the element change the effect.Lasswells questions dominated the media research1. Who should be told?veryone w o nee s to e told about somethingshould be told. It is advisable to relate the communicationto all as soon as possible. Openness is the key to makingeveryone feel involved (although there will always be somethings which are not disseminated as widely asothers). Where appropriate, communicate widely so thatindividuals are given the opportunity to influence theprocess and local ownership is gained. Barriers can also beidentified and overcome 2. When should they be told?The time to communicate with relevant peopleshould be carefully considered. It might be within a setmeeting or a oneoff arrangement.If the communicationcovers a wide range of people where possible it is desirablethat discussions take place at the same time to avoidconfusion, spread of rumours or misunderstandings.Ifinternal and external stakeholders are involved, internalstaff should be communicated with prior to externalstakeholders; this is to prevent staff hearing from othersources. including the media.3. What should they be told? ear messages, relatedtO the Subject or problem. Incomplex situations it is advisable to create a sharedmeaning and understanding, this can be done by: checking back with the recipients through an iterativeprocess let them ask questions asking for clarification of what they have understoodbeing clear that words, behaviours and s mbols are notmisunderstood or misinterpreted.4. Where should the messagebe conveyed?Choose the most effective medium to get yourmessage across, this could be in meetings, seminars,press releases etc. Make time to communicate properly,do not do it in the corridor, in the toilet or the carpark. This leads to gabbled and garbled messages andcan contribute to the 'grape vine'.5. Who should control thecommunications process?The most appropriate person depending on thesubject. If it involves external agencies include thePress Officer.Confucius wrote..'If language is not correct, thenwhat is said is not what is meant. Ifwhat is said is not what is meant,then what ought to be done remainsundone'.How would you describegood/effective communication?Effectivecommunicationis:aninterconnected connected system wherepeopleandideasflow quickly,comprehensively, and sustainable. Effectivecommunication is NOT just getting your pointacross to others quickly1Why and when do we need it?Effectivecommunicationisimportant all the time in every situationwhether professional or personal.Depending on the situation, effectivelives,communicationcansavemarriages, countries, or just help avoidevery day issuesWhat are the greatest challenges togood communication? People who think communication is aboutWHAT YOU SAY, versus HOW YOU SAY IT People who focus too much on BEING HEARD,instead of LISTENING TO OTHERS People who use the WRONG CHANNEL TOSEND A MESSAGE, such as choosing to discussa difficult situation with someone elsethrough a weak channel such as TEXT, EMAIL,or THROUGH SOMEONE ELSEHow important is listening incommunication?Listening is equally, and somewould say even more important,than talking when it comes togood communication.Is there a way we can measure orassess effective communication?Yes, you can measure almost anythingthough it really depends on the context as towhat measures you use. You can survey peopleabout how effective communication is, youcan map and graph emails in terms offrequency, length, quality, content, there issomething called Network analysis that is usedto analyze workplace communication, lots ofdifferent ways to measure something.Unethical communication still takes place because of one key reason: people often underestimate the impact of communication. In fact, communication is a paramount tool in developing a relationship and building trust with your audience. It has the power to shape narratives across any given topic from politics to technology and requires careful and thoughtful consideration of ethical principles.Consider the flipside. Unethical communication has the potential to significantly damage the online reputation of the organization in question. Imagine if a press release announcing a new product mentioned a unique feature that the item did not actually possess, or a social media post made false or exaggerated claims about being an awardwinning company. You can expect your audience to immediately lose trust in the organization in a way that is next to impossible to undo.What Is Ethical Communication?Simply put, ethical communication refers to communicating in a manner that is clear, concise, truthful, and responsible. But in a profession that does not have an explicit set of guidelines, it can be challenging to discern right from wrong.Be that as it may, just as the medical industry has its regulations and ethical standards to adhere to, communication professionals should observe an unwritten code of ethical conduct that acts as the backbone of our communications strategy and a key virtue of professionalism.We should always strive to achieve both effective communication and ethical communication — who says there is no way to balance both?Let’s explore four key ethical principles that every communications professional should bear in mind.1. Ensuring Transparency and HonestyCommunicate only what is known to be the truth. Ethics can be tricky in this regard because although it may not have been your intention, it is still considered unethical even if a mere 1 percent of what is said is false.I mentioned “responsibility” earlier and here’s where it comes into play: the responsibility of guaranteeing every single word is factual and accurate falls into the hands of the communications professional. This corporate social responsibility starts from conducting thorough research all the way to including proper attribution of all references and sources.Being wholly transparent also means establishing truthful representation. Disclose all pertinent details including any caveats or negatives, as minute as they may seem. Despite the fact that many people think public relations is synonymous with “the spin,” we should never change the narrative based on what we want our audience to believe.2. Understanding Your AudienceAmerican comedian, Fred Allen famously said, “An advertising agency is 85 percent confusion and 15 percent commission” but that should never be the case.Oftentimes written PR and corporate communications becomes overcomplicated with jargon and niche industry terminology that would make absolutely no sense to a layperson. This is why understanding your audience is so important. Before writing, we need to ask ourselves questions like:Who is going to read this?How much background knowledge do they have?Is there a way I can communicate this in a more straightforward manner?Let’s not forget that communication is always a twoway street. Community engagement is not just about us getting a message across. It is also the feedback we receive, which largely depends on how the message was comprehended. This means that we must factor in any language barriers that the audience may face and push for representation in our choice of words. As communication professionals, this helps us make certain that we do not present anything that may cause harm or be construed as demeaning, intolerant or even hateful.3. Respecting Confidentiality and PrivacyPrivacy is a hot topic, and rightfully so. It is so easy to get carried away, especially when there is a potentially sensational message, but always ensure you are not violating any individual’s privacy or disclosing confidential information regarding an organization.Honor and safeguard the confidentiality of your customers and partners that may have disclosed certain details that are meant to strictly be kept under wraps, even if there is no legally binding document such as a nondisclosure agreement. The same applies to those working in journalism and who may have tapped on sources that have requested to remain anonymous or shared private knowledge off the record.4. Choosing the Right Time and PlaceFollowing ethical communication practices goes beyond what you are saying, but also when and where. Take for example an advertisement for cigarettes on a children’s television channel or a feature story on hightechnology weapons in the midst of a conflict. While extreme scenarios, these demonstrate the importance of when and where we decide to communicate.Be tactful and mindful in choosing the most appropriate time and place to communicate. Plan and strategize. Research your audience, the various options you have for mediums or channels, as well as global events that may affect the way your message is received and perceived.Putting an End to the Ethical Dilemma in CommunicationsEthics should be the cornerstone of every organization’s communication strategy. We know this to be true, but what does it mean to communicate ethically? Because the topic of communication ethics is not typically discussed as often as it should, this frequently results in uncertainty on the part of communication professionals.Effective ethical communication is foundational to the success of an organization’s communication strategy. While communicating factually accurate messages honestly and transparently is central to ethical communication, it also extends far beyond that.With that in mind, what would you change about the way you communicate?COMMUNICATION PROCESSES, PRINCIPLES AND ETHICSREADING TEXTWe are social beings and as such, we feel an intense need to express our thoughts, feelings,aspirations, doubts, questions, and fears. Equally intense is our need to be listened to. These needs to express and to be listened to – are basic or innate in all of us.NOTE: Communication does not only involves speaking but also listening too.But as Ben Johnson, the English poet, has said the ability to speak and to speak well are twodifferent things. Most if not all of us, can speak, but only a few can really speak well.NOTE: Speaking the ability to speak or talk. Common and natural for everyone. Speaking welltalks with substance and has sense. Anonymous "Hearing tells you that music is playing but listening tells you what the song is saying. There aretimes that we hear, but we forget to listen.”NOTE: Ang meaning ng nakahiglight is naririnig mo lang yung sinasabi nung tao pero ‘di monaiintindihan yung gusto nyang sabihin. When we listen, we understand the message. Ben Johnson “I remind myself every morning: Nothing I say this day will teach me anything. So if I'm going tolearn, I must do it by listening.." Dean Jackson –“Listening is an art that requires attention over talent, spirit over ego, others over self.”NOTE: “others over self” – we try to understand base from their perspective. Instead of thinkingourselves, sila muna yung pakinggan natinREADING TEXTHearing is passive, natural, and continuous process because you do not exert any effort to do it. Thesound just passes from one ear to the other through sound waves. Listening, in contrast, is an activeskill because it demands that you concentrate, interpret, and respond.NOTE: For you to be able to respond to whatever is communicated, you have to listen. ‘Di pwedengnarinig mo lang pero ‘di mo dingiest yung pinakanggan mo. Ex: May nagtanong sa class. Hearing:narinig mo lang na may nagsasalita Listening: Narinig mo nagtatanong sya about somethingWhen conversing or listening to a speaker, we must focus on the addressor and the message. Wemust refrain from arguing mentally with the speaker because of difference in mindsets, beliefs, andattitudes.NOTE: As a listener we also our has the responsibility to listen and remove any biases. As a listener,we need to give them a chance to listen to others para mapakinggan natin yung point of view nya.Communication is a process which involves two parties – the Speaker/ Sender and the Listener/Receiver – who are engaged in understanding or sharing ideas to create messages related to aparticular context or situation.SUMMARY Communication involves two important macro skills: listening (input) and speaking(output). Speaking well means being able to send the intended message to the audience. Hearing is a passive skill while listening is an active skill. The speaker should exert effort in making clear the message he/she wants to convey. The listener should interpret the sent messages without any bias.PRINCIPLES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF COMMUNICATIONCHARACTERISTIC 1: COMMUNICATION IS SCHEMATADRIVEN. Communication is sending or receiving messages from one person to the other by activatingthe schemata that one has stored in the brain since early developmental stage. Thus,transmitted messages become understandable or meaningful. (Prior knowledge) Communication is schemata driven.NOTE: Schemata – prior knowledge. For us to communicate we need to have prior knowledge onwhat we are sayingEX: You saw a child in the middle of the street. Syempre iguguide mo sa and sasabihin mo dun sabata na wag syang pumunta dun kasi baka masagasaan sya. With that, may prior knowledge ka kasina kapag nasa gutna ng kalsada, pwedeng masagasaan or mapahamak ka. So bale, meron kangreason kung bakit ka naginitiate ng communication; meron kang stored information about that andnaactivate lang sya kasi nasa isang situation ka. Naging transmission ng message naging meaningfuland understandable kasi inexplain mo dun sa bata bakit mo ginawa yun and you were able tocommunicate what’s on your mindCHARACTERISTIC 2: COMMUNICATION IS AN INTERPRETATIVE ACT. The only person who knows the exact meaning of the message transmitted is the sender.Thus, the role of the receiver is just to make meaning of things appealing to the sense ofhearing. Communication is an interpretative act.NOTE: Kapg nasend na ni sender yung gusto nyang sabihin it’s up to the receaiver kung paanomaiintindihan yun. As the sender, ikaw lang talaga nakakaalam kung ano yung original meaning nasinasabi mo.EX: Nag “I love you” si crush. Pwedeng mainterprete ni receiver na bet sya ni crush tapos wala langpala yun dun kay sender (crush).CHARACTERISTIC 3: COMMUNICATION CAN LEAD TO A DIRECT OR AUTOMATIC LINKBETWEEN TWO MINDS. Each individual's mind has a lot of varied ideas or concepts about the world. However, theseforms of knowledge become meaningful only to others when communication is initiated. Communication can lead to a direct or automatic link between two minds.NOTE: Meaning each of us have our own ideas EX: nalaman mo na fan ng kpop yung block matesmo. That information you have in mind will be unless you \ communicate to the person. EX:Recitation. Alam mo ‘di ka sure sa sagot mo kaya ‘di ka nlang nagrecite tapos nung sinabi nung profyung tamang sagot, yun pala yung data na sasabihin mo. The problem is ‘di mo sya sinabi. As long asyou have something in common nung tao tapos ‘di ka naginiate ng talk para verify ba kung parehaskayo ng naiisipCHARACTERISTIC 4: COMMUNICATION IS ACTIVE, POWERFUL, OR FORCEFUL. Messages have varied effects on all participants in any communicative event. Elicitingdifferent meanings or reactions, these messages are prone to changes brought about bysociological, institutional, ideological, cultural, and other environmental elements. Communication is active, powerful, or forceful.NOTE: Communication is active. It’s changing. Th words that we use before is definitely sifferentfrom the words we use now. EX: (1) sinabi mo sa lola mo “gg” ang pagkakaintindi nya is“galunggong” kasi ganun yung ginagamit nya dati and ikaw ang meaning nun sa’yo is “good game”kasi yun yung laging ginagamit na ngayon (2) Sinabi mo sa bat ana bobo sya so hanngang sa paglakinya iisipin nya na bobo sya and that’s how powerful words are. (3) Nagtiktok ka tapos sabi llink inbio so nung nakita mo nagpabudol ka so naadd to cart mo na and that’s how forcefulcommunication are. Forceful kasi naconvince ka bilhin yun kahit ‘di mo naman kailanganCHARACTERISTIC 5: COMMUNICATION IS SYMBOLIC. When communicating, individuals would use different symbols either verbally ornonverbally to express or convey ideas to one another. Communication is symbolic.NOTE: Sometimes we make use of symbols to communicate. EX: (1) You saw a guy kneeling in frontof a girl. You would think na someone is proposing and that’s symbolic kasi kahit ‘di sinabi sa’tin,naita lang natin from afar, we already know na nagproposse sya. (2) kakatok ka sa jeep ibig sabihinbababa ka na. The problem with symbols is that when we aren’t aware on the symbols that we aregiving, we might give another message.CHARACTERISTIC 6: COMMUNICATION ALWAYS RESULTS IN SOMETHING Two or more persons participate in any communicative act. The first expresses or sends amessage; the second responds or reacts to the message. It is impossible for any personcommunicating a message not to get any response or reaction from the listeners. Communication always results in somethingNOTE: May gusto makuhang reaction dun sa kausap mo or may expected ka na gagagwin nya EX:(1)Inutusan mo yung kapatid mo na ikuha ka ng tubig. You would expect na ikukuha ka nya ngtubig.(2) Ssbi mo sa friend mo “Lobstre yung ulam naming kanina skl” You expected na maiingityung sinabihan mo. So, bale kada may sasabihin ka, may reaction ka laging hinahantay.CHARACTERISTIC 7: COMMUNICATION IS IRREVERSIBLE. Everyone is free to talk and talk about anything under the sun. The things uttered wouldremain as it is  susceptible to different interpretations or meanings thus creating an impacton the listener. Any attempt of reversing what has been said would not bring back the initialeffects of the original statement. Communication is irreversible.NOTE: Ibig sabihin nito, ‘di na mamablik yung sinabi mo kasi tumatak na yun sa isip ng tao. EX: Nagaway kayo ng kibigan mo tapos sabi mo “kaya lang naman kita kinaiibigan kasi wala may gustingmakipagkaibigan sa’yo”. Tapos after nun nagkabati na kayo pero ‘di na nya maailis sa isipan nyayung sinabi mo and yun nalang yung laging iiisipin nya kapag naguusap kayo.CHARACTERISTIC 8: COMMUNICATION IS CONTEXTUAL. An exchange of views, ideas, or feelings does not only involve the sender and the receiver,but also other aspects of the communication setting like time, place, topic, occasion,purpose, and manner of communication. Communication is contextual.NOTE: When we communicate, we need to look at the context. You cannot communicate tosomething is you don’t have the know or it’s appropriate on the situation. EX: Pumunta ka salibingan tapos sinabi mo sa family nung namatayan na “alam mo ba may utang pa sa’kin yanehh..”It’s not the right time and place kasi they’re grieving pa eh.. You need to consider the contextkung ano ba yung situationCHARACTERISTIC 9 : COMMUNICATION IS DEVELOPMENTAL OR PROGRESSIVE. To communicate ideas is to go through the different stages of language learning andinteracting with various people in order or to achieve communicative competence. Communication is developmental or progressive.NOTE: EX: Nung baby pa tayo, when we are hungry, we cry pero ngayon na malaki na tayo,sasabihin nalang natin na gutom na tayo. There should always be progress sa communicationCHARACTERISTIC 10: COMMUNICATION IS A PROCESS Several stages of communication take place when people exchange ideas with one another.Each stage involves elements with different functions. Working in a coordinated manner tocomplete a process, these components or elements prove the dynamic nature ofcommunication. Communication is a process.NOTE: Process Stepbystep. It follows a certain step that you need to look into otherwise thecommunication will not be complete.CHARACTERISTIC 11: COMMUNICATION IS ETHICAL. Any communicative event is expected to apply rules, moral, values, and beliefs agreed uponby societal members so as to maintain harmonious relationships. Communication is ethical.NOTE: EX: (1) nakikipagusap ka sa grandparents mo about sex. It’s either apagalitan ka or ‘si kasasagutin kasi it’s not normal for us to talk about tat kasi we are a conservative country whichresult na ‘di ka nalang magtatanong. (2) Kumakain kayo ng dinner tapos nagmura ka ng malakas.Syempre magagalit yung parents mo kasi it’s unethical or ‘di tama na gain mo yung sa harap ngparents mo kasi alam mo naman na magagalit sila kasi may vaue silang pinaniniwalaan. Ang youwant to maintain a harmonius relationship.CHARACTERISTIC 12 : COMMUNICATION IS INFLUENCED BY MEDIA AND TECHNOLOGY. In this era of modern technology, there is instant global exchange of knowledge, services,and technology regardless of distance between and among participants. Communication is influenced by media and technology.NOTE: Like online class, though it’s not effective and efficient but it’s something we can do insteadin the mean time because of technology. It’s also the affect the way we communicate. EX: “Awit” datiang ibig sabihin lang nito is yung pagkanta ngayon ang eaning n anito is “aw sakit” and it’s becauseof the technology. Napalaganap nya ‘to .VALUES INTEGRATION“Communication must be HOT. That's Honest, Open, and Twoway.”  Dan OswaldNOTE: You don’t expect people to listen to you if you don’t listen to themExample/ Review:1, The student council invited a guest speaker for the seminar; however, the audience found it hardto understand him since his talk was not aligned to the theme of the event.Answer: Communication is Contextual.2. Bill lives alone in an apartment since both of his parents are working abroad. Every now andthen, they would talk with one another using zoom.Answer: Communication is Influenced by Media and Technology.3. Many thought that Aldwin would not be able to speak properly due to a traumatizing accident;however, after years of therapy, he has certainly improved his power of speech since he is now ableto utter statements with proper stress and diction.Answer: Communication is Developmental or Progressive.4. Kirsten was not able to answer the teacher’s question during the discussion because she was notable to read the topic in advanceAnswer: Communication is SchemataDriven.5. Francis Kong is indeed an effective speaker, for he can convince people to do good worksAnswer: Communication is Active, Powerful, Or Forceful.6. James, a Filipino tourist in Thailand was reprimanded by the members of the Thailand TourismAuthority for making a rude joke about their King.Answer: Communication is Ethical.7. Charles can now speak fluent Italian, a feat impossible when he began formal instruction 4 yearsbefore.Answer: Communication is Developmental or Progressive.8. Nathan forgot to submit his paper because of an emergency, so he sent his teacher a quick emailto inform her that his paper would be late. The teacher recognized this and excused him.Answer: Communication is Influenced by Media and Technology./  Communication alwaysresults in something9. The supervisor reprimanded Alex for being noisy, he behaved and took things seriously eversince.Answer: Communication is active, powerful, or forceful.10. Brian and Bryan would not have become friends if it weren’t for their mutual love for horrorAnswer: Communication can Lead to a Direct or Automatic Link Between Two Minds.11. When Arnie heard his friend cough, he told her to drink plenty of fluids, and take some lozengezto soothe her throatAnswer:  Communication is SchemataDriven.12. At Buwan ng Wika program, June suddenly asked a question about the important of the Englishlanguage. The moderator tried to answer politely, but everyone looked at him strangely.Answer: Communication is contextual.NATURE AND ELEMENTS OFCOMMUNICATIONELEMENTS OF COMMUNICATIONSENDER One who conveys a message, oral or written, stirred by his own ideas and feelings. He/she isexpected to have mastery of the subject matter, clarity of purpose and attitude towardshimself/herself, the receiver, and the subject matterNOTE: Kapag seder ka kailagan ma mastery ng topic kasi ikaw nga yung nagiinitiate ngcommunication. Kailangan alam mo yung purpose or reason kung bakit gusto mog sabihin yun. Wehave to consider our receiver like kailanan malaman mo kung sino ba si receiver para alam mokung paano ba asya kakausapin.MESSAGE These are thoughts, ideas, or information being communicated verbally, nonverbally orvisually to the receivers. Verbal messages are those which are communicated through theuse of voice and words. The absence of rate, volume, pitch, and quality, articulation, andpronunciation are what constitute nonverbal messages.NOTE: Yung mga sign language for the depth – they are considered as verbal communication kasimay equivalent na word yung symbols. Nonverbal – certain actions and the meaning depends onpeople interpreted itCHANNEL/CODE This refers to the medium (oral, graphic, or written) used by which message iscommunicated. Language is a set of sounds and symbols grouped together into words.These words in themselves have no meaning until they are used in appropriate contexts,and they have connotative and denotative meanings.NOTE: Word are words but if you put them in context that’s the only time that it would have meant.Connotative  this is the meaning that we associate in a certain word/ it’s like symbolism.Denotative this is the literal meaning from dictionary. Ex: House Denotative: it’s a structure wherepeople live. Connotative: family, protection, supportRECEIVER One who can receive the intention of the conveyed message if he/she possesses thefollowing: proficiency in the language, enough background knowledge of the subject matter,and openness to other people's thoughts and feelings.NOTE: As the receiver, it’s not enough that you hear it, you need to have the following:proficiency in the language you need to have a knowledge on the language or the topic. EX:Watching KDrama, you need to know how to read in English or understand Korean to know thestory of the drama you’re watching.enough background knowledge of the subject matter Dapat may overview ka kung anongpinaguusapan. Para kang nanood ng movie ng hindi alam kung ano yung story at ‘di mo nasimulan..and openness to other people's thoughts and feelings you should avoid biases, don’t give negativethoughts on the speaker itself. we need to give them a chance to speak EX: Tinanong ka networkerna “open minded ka ba?” Then sabi mo “scam yan”. Di mo binigyan ng chance si speaker kung anoyung gusto nyang sabihin.NOISE These refer to anything that obstructs the understanding of the message. There are twobasic types of noise: internal or external.NOTE: Internal Noise something happening inside a person Ex: emotion, feelings External Noiseito yung naririnig mo. Macoconsider mo lang siya as noise as long as ‘di kayo nagaaintindihan EX:Naririnig mo na yung tunog ng plato tsaka kaldero sa mesaFEEDBACK These refer to the responses or reactions which are directed to the speaker. Throughfeedbacks the speaker can adjust to the needs of the listeners.NOTE: Ito yung kapag gusto makua yung mga suggestion, reaction, or response nila sa sinabi mopara malaman mo kung ano yung ireresponse mo pabalikCONTEXT This refers to the circumstances, conditions, and other aspects/factors affecting thecommunicative event. This may be classified as physical aspects, psychological factors,historical data, and cultural settingNOTE: The context tells us where the situation is taking place kaya nasal labas sya ng flow chart.Yung context is yung sitation mismoExample:The president gave a press conference about the safety measures for the fight against CoVid 19. Headdressed the media via Zoom. The heavy rain caused some intermittent connection with thesignal, making the call choppy, but in the end, the press were able to get the president's message,and thanked him.Sender: PresidentMessage: Safety measures for the fight against Covid 19Channel/Code: Press Conference via ZoomReceiver: pressNoise: heavy rain; poor signal Feedback: thanked the presidentFeedback: The press thanked the presidentContext: CoVid 19 PandemicPROCESS OF COMMUNICATIONTHINKING Concepts, ideas, images, experiences, beliefs, attitudes, and values conveyed originate fromthe brain. Whenever communicating with others, one activates, organizes and evaluatesthese forms of stock knowledge.NOTE: Dito nagkakaroon ka palang ng idea.SYMBOLIZING One thinks of codes or symbols to embody, signify, or represent ideas, concepts, beliefs orfeelings which are abstract.NOTE:Yung idea nasa mind, ito iniisip mo kung anong best way kung paano mo maprepresent yun.It’s like choosing an option kung paano mo sya gagawin EX: sasabihin mo ba sya personally,sasabihin mo ba sya vis zoom?gmail? and so onEXPRESSING Coming in different types and forms such as language structures, bodily actions, or voicequality, these codes speak of the thoughts and feelings one wants to transmit or transfer tothe listener.NOTE: Expressing is formulating what you’re going to say.TRANSMITTING Through verbal or nonverbal symbols, one sends forward messages or ideas to peopleinvolved in the communicative event.NOTE: Sasabihin mo na yung nasa mind mo.RECEIVING The message or idea represented by verbal or nonverbal symbols and transmitted by thesender or speaker reach the receiver or listener through his sense of hearing and seeingwithout giving interpretations of the symbols.NOTE: Dito narinig/nakita na ni receiverDECODING One translates the symbols to ordinary language that mirrors cultural, sociological,ideological, institutional, or environmental understanding of the world so as to makeinterpretations, predictions, inferences, conclusions or generalizations.NOTE: The receiver tries to interprete the messageREACTING/RESPONDING One gives feedbacks which may either be positive or negative based on the meaningssignified by the symbols or ideas through words, gestures, facial expressions, voiceintonation or tone.NOTE: Ito yung reponse ni receiver EX: Yes, no, maybe,MONITORINGTo make sure that the acts of exchanging of views or ideas with other people really cater theirinterests, likes, and dislikes, one needs to check the effects of communication on them.NOTE: Nung nagrespond na si receiver, ano yung naging reaction mo naman dun and ano yuggagawin mo? NOTE: Continue the conversation, Ignore na conversation, seen, delete, and so onCOMMUNICATION PROCESSSPEAKER/SENDEREXAMPLE SITUATION: You forgot to submit your quiz. Napnsin mo na nakaipit pala yung quizpaper mo sa libro mo.THINKING Thought originates in the mind of the speaker which he/she wishes to conveyNOTE: Based sa situation sa itaas, the thinking starts kapag naiisip mo na na kailangan mo iexplainsa teacher mo ung bakit nakalimutan mong ipasaSYMBOLIZING Converts the idea into mental language symbols, words, phrases and sentencesNOTE: Base sa stuation, paano mo ba sasabhin sa teacher mo yung situation mo? Through chat ba?Pupunta ka ba n faculty room?EXPRESSING Translates symbols into audible speech and appropriate physical actionNOTE: Bago ka pumunta ng faculty room syempre prapraticin mo muna yung sasabihin mo. Dito napapasok kung anong script ng sasabihin mo. EX: “ma’am sorry nakalimutan kong ipasa”“Ayy..ma’am naatulog ako kaya di ko napasa” . Basta ito yung pinakaphrase/ sentence na sasabihinmo.TRANSMITTING Sends messages or ideas represented in sound waves to people in the communicative eventNOTE: Dito nakapagdecide ka na kung anong sasabihin mo and sinabi mo na sya EX: ““Ma’amnakalimutan ko pong ipasa yung quiz ko”LISTENER/RECEIVERRECEIVINGNeural impulses stimulated by sound and light reach the listener through the sense of hearing orseeingNOTE: Dito sa transmitting, narinig na nung teacer mo yung sinabi moDECODINGTranslates the nerve impulses into meaningful language symbols and into thoughtNOTE: Dito naman, ininterprete na nung teacher mo ung sinabi mo. Tapos nagpagisipisip nya nalast week di ka rin nagpasa, and sguro nangongopya ka lang.REACTING/RESPONDING Responds positively or negatively based on the meanings signified by the symbols or ideasexpressed verbally or nonverballyNOTE: Dito naman is yung mismong response ng teacher mo EX: “Di ko na yan tatanggapin”MONITORINGWatches the behavior of listener, the speaker adjusts in language, content, rate, tone, loudness, etc.NOTE: Dito naman, ano naman ang gagawin mo after mo marinig yung response ng teacher mo?EX: pinilit si teacher na tanggapin yung quiz paper mo or Di mo nalang ipipilit at uuwi ka nalang. A reciprocal relationship between the Speaker/Sender and the Listener/Receiver isdeveloped through the communication process. The process of communication follows a spiral movement indicating ongoing exchanging ofmessages and ideas. However, in every cycle of communication, no two reactions on thesame message from the same Speaker are the same because the Speaker bases his or herfeedback on the Listener's message. Depending on the thinking patterns of both participantsin their recurrent exchange of s Messages, their communication or interaction increases ordecreases. As such, communication a dynamic process.NOTE: Meron kayong pa;litan ng ideas. Pwedeng magincrease or decrease yung conversationlooking at the way you communicate at the beginning and end of the conversationSITUATION 1Alex was tasked to give a speech about humor to an audience. She started by asking the crowd whatthe word humor means. The crowd did not respond. Then, she showed them a picture, and thecrowd laughed. From that reaction, he began his speech.THINKING: Naiisip na si Alex ng idea about humorSYMBOLIZING: Naiisip nya na magtanong nalang sa audience about humorEXPRESSING: Nagformulate ng question si Alex in her mindTRANSMITTING: Yung naformulate nya na question is tinanong na nya sa audienceRECEIVING: Narininig na nung audience yung tanong ni AlexDECODING: Di na gets ng audience yung sinasabi nyaREACTING/RESPONDING: Walang response yung mga audienceMONITORING: Pinakita ni Alex yung picture.2nd Process:THINKING: Naiisip na si Alex ng idea about humorSYMBOLIZING: Naisip ni Alex na sa speech nya is magtanong pero baka ‘di nila magets kayamagprepepare nalang ako ng pictureEXPRESSING: She looked for pictures related sa topicTRANSMITTING: After tanungin ni Alex yung audience and walang response, bigla nya pinakitayung pictureRECEIVING: Nakita na nung audience yung picture na pinakita ni AlexDECODING: Na gets na nung audience yung jokeREACTING/RESPONDING: Tumawa yung mga audienceMONITORING: Nagsimula ng magbigay ng speech si AlexSITUATION 2Timothy was running in the hallway since he was about to be late for the class. He ran past ateacher, and she gave him a stern look. Timothy apologized for his actions and explained hissituation.THINKING: Nalaman ni Timothy na late na syaSYMBOLIZING: Nagiisip sya ng idea kung paano makakarating sa class nya kung lalakad ba sya,magdadahandahan, or tatakbo syaEXPRESSING: Napagdesisyonan nya na tatakbo syaTRANSMITTING: Tumakbo na si Timothy sa HallwayRECEIVING: Nakita sya nung teacher na tumatakboDECODING: ‘Di nagustuhan nung teacher yun ginagawa nya (The teacher interprete that assomething rude/ The teacher saw it as a violation of school rules)REACTING/RESPONDING: Binigyan si Timothy ng stern look ng teacherMONITORING: Timothy apologized for his actions and explained his situation.SITUATION 3It was Mother's Day, so you decided to treat your mom. After having dinner on a restaurant, youwanted to go to the movies next, so you asked your mom to go with you; your mom said no becauseshe still needed to finish her work. As such, both of you went home together.THINKING: Nagkaroon ka ng idea na yayain yung mom mo na manood ng movie after nyomagdinner (In addition to dinner, she wanted to treat my mom to watch a movie).SYMBOLIZING: Naiisip mo na tanungin sya personally (She will ask her through speaking to herpersonally)EXPRESSING: Sasabihin mo na kung pwede ba kayong manood ng movie after ng dinner nyo(Sheformulated a question)TRANSMITTING: Tinanong mo na sa mama mo kung pwede ba kayong manood ng movie (She askher mom)RECEIVING: Narinig na nung mom mo yung sinabi mo (Her mom heard the question)DECODING: Naalala nya na marami pa syang gagawin (Her mom she thought that she needed tofinish her work)REACTING/RESPONDING: Nagsabi sya ng “no” kasi marami pa raw syang gagawin (She responded“no”)MONITORING: They went home together.Guide Question to know the process of communication in a situation:THINKING: What’s your idea?SYMBOLIZING: How would you tell/express that idea? What are your options to transmit that idea?EXPRESSING: What did you decided to do/ say?TRANSMITTING: What will you do?RECEIVING: How do the receiver receive the idea? Did he/she hear the idea? Or did he/she saw thatidea?DECODING: How did the receiver interpreted that idea?REACTING/RESPONDING: How did they react? (Smiled, frown, cry, shout, etc) What is theirresponse? (Yes, No, Maybe)MONITORING: How did you react from that response? What is your plan after receiving thatresponse?NATURE AND ELEMENTS OFCOMMUNICATIONSYMBOL SYSTEMSVERBAL AND NON VERBAL COMMUNICATION All forms of communication can be classified as either verbal or nonverbal communication. Verbal communication (VC) is also known as dialogue which uses the language to convey orrespond to messages. VC can be subdivided into either vocal (spoken language) or nonvocal (written language,sign language, finger spelling, Braille, or other similar alternatives to verbal language).NOTE: Those sign language is considered as verbal communication kasi they have word equivalent.Ginamit lang syang as an alternative to verbal languages Nonverbal communication (NVC) expresses messages through nonlinguistic means likeobjects, actions, sounds, time, and space.LINGUISTICS Study of human speech, including the units, nature, structure, and modification of language.NOTE: When did you start learning English? (1) Alphabet (2) nu.rsery rhymes.VERBAL SYMBOLSPHONOLOGICAL MEANING Signals for this type of meaning are distinctive sounds that are put together to form ameaningful item.NOTE: After you’re familiar with the letter, you will look at the sounds of those letters. Each letterhas its own district sound. Ex: Sound of “b” – “bugh” Includes differences in vowel and consonant sounds, stress, press and intonation. Phonology – the study of sound patterns of a particular language by determining whichphonetic sounds are significant and explaining how these sounds are interpreted by thenative speaker.NOTE: If we are trying to learn a language, we need to learn the sounds according to how it was usein that language. Kunwari gusto mong matutunan yung English language, kung ano yung sound ngEnglish letter that’s how we’re going to pronounce it. ‘Di mo pwede iapply yung filipino concept. EX:Sound of letter “t” , Filipino: “t” 🡪 “ti” English: “t” 🡪”tugh” .You have to know how it is pronounce inthe language you are studying because it could affect the meaning of the word.READING TEXT AI saw a bat. 🡪 first letter sounds like “bugh” Cat 🡪 first letter sounds like “k” or “sss” Mat 🡪 first letter sounds like “mmm” Rat 🡪 first letter sounds like “rrr”DIFFERENCE: Consonant soundsNOTE: They have difference in the first letter which are consonant.READING TEXT BShow me the bar. Bear BoarDIFFERENCE: Vowel SoundsNOTE: In English, vowel sound is very difficult to master because they may have same words, butthey have different pronunciation. If you changed the sound of that vowel; it could also change themeaning. ‘di mo sila pwede pagpalitinREADING TEXT C1.How will I address him when I ask for his address?2.They will record the song in a longplaying record3.They will present him with a Thanksgiving present4.That rebel has no cause to rebelDIFFERENCE: StressNOTE: Pag ‘di mo alam kung saan yung stress ng word or diin ng word; ‘di mo malalaman yungmeaning na yun. You have to be familiar sa stress. If you’re going to read it, you have to show thedifference when it comes to the stress.READING TEXT D1.Hand me that red/wine bottle.NOTE: Meaning nito is yung wine bottle is color red2.Hand me that red wine/bottle.NOTE: Meaning nito bote ng red wineDIFFERENCE: PausesNOTE: You should know where you should stop or do pauses especially when you’re talking tomake a distinction. Maiiba kasi yung meaning kapag nilagyan mo ng pause yung isang sentenceSEMANTIC MEANING Has to do with meaningful units – morphemes – which could stand by themselves (affixes,and compound words) Sementics – the study of the meanings of words and phrases in language used in a particularcontext.NOTE: We are now studying the words and we are trying to figure out how to use those words.READING TEXT AHOMONYMS – Words have different spellings but are pronounced the same Soul – sole Hoarse – horse Heard – herd Pour – pore Soar soreNOTE: You need to learn the meaning of these words kasi kapag narinig mo yung mga words na ‘totapos ‘di ka familiar sa word na yun; you wouldn’t know the word kung anong tinutukoy. EX: Whensomeone told you that “I sound hoarse today”, since katunog nya yung word na “horse” iisipin motunog kabayo sya. It’s not enough to know how to read words, you also need to know how to usethese particular words. You would know how to use words in a specific context.READING TEXT BHETERONYMS Words have same spelling but are pronounces differently1.a. Wipe away those tears from your eyes b. Sew those tears on your dress.NOTE: a. tears 🡪 sounds like “tirs” meaning luha b. tears 🡪 sounds like “ters” meaning punit2.a. Read the fine print closely. b. I read it repeatedly a while ago.NOTE: a. Read 🡪 sounds like “rid” meaning basahin b. read 🡪 sounds like “red” meaning binasa3.a. He has bow and arrow b. We bow our heads as a greeting to othersNOTE: a. bow 🡪 sounds like “bow” meaning pana b. bow 🡪 sounds like “baw” meaning yumokoNOTE: Heteronyms, parehas yung spelling pero magkaiba yung meaning.READING TEXT CCOMPOUND WORDS – two or three words put together to form another term which may be solid,hyphenated or separated stepmother => motherinlaw (hyphenated) greenhouse(solid) => green revolution family tree => tree diagram road show => road mapNOTE: Itong compound words, ‘di mo pwedeng pagsamahin yung meaning ng dalawang word. Mayspecific meaning sya as a whole kaya kilangan alam mo kung paano gamitin yung word na yun sasentence. It’s really important to understand the meaning of the whole word and you should knowhow to use it. Sa compound word, pwedeng solid, hyphenated or separated yung words paramadistinguish as compound words. Basta two or three words sya na pinagcombine.SYNTACTIC MEANING Knowledge of grammatical rules Involves correct usage of word order and difference in meaning that results from thechange in structure of a sentenceNOTE: So here, we apply subjectverb agreement, pronoun antecedent agreement, Danglingmodifiers and so on. Dapat yung grammar mo nagaagree or tama yung grammar mo. If you’re goingto construct sentences applying these grammar rules you have to consider the language. Di pwedeiisipin mo sya ng Filipino then tratranslate mo sya in EnglishEX: Filipino: kumain ako ng manga English: Eat I mango (ungrammatical). Iba kasi yung sentencestructure ng Filipino and English kaya di accurate yung pagtratranslate Syntax – the way in which words are put together to form phrases, clauses, or sentences;thus, involves rules of grammar and other patterns.NOTE: Kailangan maaral natin yung grammar kasi it doesn’t sound good minsanEX: usage of “a” or “an”Ungrammatical: A apple a day makes the doctors away.Gramatically correct: An apple a day makes the doctors away.NOTE: It sounds good when you are grammatically correct and madali sya basahin and intindihin. Ifyou’re communicating with someone it may cause a misunderstanding EX: You want to tell yourgf/bf that you love them then you say “I loved, you” – which means dati mo syang mahal perongayon ‘di na.READING TEXT ASET A1.The phone is ringing.NOTE: Phone was use as noun. Meaning “phone”2.I shall phone you laterNOTE: Phone was use as verb. Meaning “call”SET B1.The bear killed the hunter.NOTE: The Sentence Structure: Subject, verb, Direct object. Meaning: Pinatay nung bear yunghunter2.The hunter killed the bear.NOTE: The Sentence Structure: Direct object, verb, Subject. Meaning: yung hunter yung pumatay sabearSET C1.Did the hunter kill the bear?NOTE: Dapat di nakapast tence yung verb so tama ‘to kasi hindi “killed” yung nakalagaySET D1.No, the hunter didn’t kill the bear. It is the other way around.PRAGMATICS MEANING Considers not just the words, but also the context of situation and the relationship of thecommunicators to arrive at the meaning of utterance.NOTE: Application ng lahat ng rules about grammar. Ito yung magpapaessay tapos maipapakita moyung pagcontruct mo ng idea. Dito kahit magaling ka sa word, pronounciation and sa grammar perodi mo alam kung paano or kailan gagamitin yung words na yun; mahihirapan kang magcontruct ngidea base dun sa context/situation. Pragmatics – deals with language in use and the contexts in which it is used.NOTE: Pragmatic is knowing how to use a word and how you will interpret them based on theirusage. You need to know when you are going to use the words correctly.READING TEXT AJoe to Mary at a dinner date: Mary I am going to give you this ring.NOTE: Ring means yung singsing. based on this contextEmma to a friend while in school: Give me a ring tonight so we can talk about the project.NOTE: Ring means a call based on this contextEmma reads the direction in a test: Ring the correct word that should be used in each sentence.NOTE: Ring means encircle based on this contextNONVERBAL SYMBOLSCHRONEMICS Deals with the use of time as an element of communication. (a) punctuality, (b) patterns ofdominance or deference in a communication situation, (c) time from the standpoint of socialsettings, (d) monochronemics vs polychronemicsNOTE: It is associated with time. Time can really say something on the person.Ex: (1)Pumunta ka sa date tapos 2 hours earlier kang dumating. It could mean na excited ka. (2)Hinintay mo bf mo for 2 hours. Mafrufrustrate ka and feel mo na ‘di ka mahalaga. (3) Job interviewtapos maaga kang pumunta. Yung first impression na mabibigay nung magiinterview sa’yo isprepared ka sa interviewNOTE: It’s also the time you allot for a person.EX: (1) Lagi kang nakikipagchat sa isang tao pero ‘di mo naman yun ginagawa sa lahat. So, it meansna that person is special (2) Nagrereunion kayo ng family mo tuwing December. Of course, you willnot set something for that date/event kasi tradition ng family nyo yun. Kapag dumating ka sareunion it would show that you value your family/tradition and if ‘di ka naman dumating sareunion it would mean na wala kang pake sa family mo.TYPES OF TIMEA. FORMAL TIME – Measured in minutes, hours, days and so on.NOTE: Ito yung mga Monday, 24 hours ,8 minutes.B. INFORMAL TIME – Measured relative to seasons, social customs, lunar cycles, etc.NOTE: Social customs, yung every Christmas, birthday, anniversary may certain kayong ginagawaPROXEMICS Social use of space in a communication situation – (a) closeness between and among peoplewhen they speak and the significant role of culture, (b) effective use of space in socialsettingsNOTE: It has something to do with spaceEX: (1) laging magkasama yung dalawa, laging magkatabi. It would mean na may relationship sila orsomething. You’re not invading personal space kasi pwede sya magbigay ng certain impression like“feeling close”TYPE OF DISTANCEA. INTIMATE SPACE – 018 inchesNOTE: It is applicable to people that is close with us like family. EX: Nakikipagusap ka sa family mo.It’s normal lang na malapit kayong magusapB. PERSONAL SPACE/INFORMAL DISTANCE – 18 inches to 4 feetNOTE: Applicable ‘to sa mga friends. Kunwari nakatambay lang kayo sa canteen, quadrangle,C.SOCIAL SPACE/ FORMAL DISTANCE – 4 –12 feetNOTE: Ito yung space kapag makikipag usap ka sa mga teacher mo. Ito yung usual distance kapagmakikipagusap ka formallyD.PUBLIC SPACE – beyond 12 feetNOTE: This is people who are giving speech to the public. Like ikaw yung nasa stage tapos malawakung space mot apos yung audience nasa baba ng stage tapos malayo sa’yo.HAPTICS Focuses on touching as an element of communication – (a) type of touch, (b) frequency, (c)intensityNOTE: It has to do with sense of touch.Ex: When somebody pat you on the shoulder. Meaning it is some sort of encouragement. Frequencymeans kung lagi nya bang ginagawa yung touching na yun. Intensity, means kung madiin ba yungpaghawak sa’yo. Wag tayo gagawa ng bagay na mamimisinterprete ng iba.TYPES OF TOUCHES:A. HIGH – CONTACT/ TOUCH CULTURES – employ much social touching – embraces and hand –holdingNOTE: Ito yung mga yakap tsaka hawakkamay.B. MODERATE – TOUCH CULTURES – use touching occasionally – handshakes, shoulder touching,back slappingNOTE: Ito yung mga more formal. Ito yung ginagawa mong form of touch lalo na kung ‘di mo closeyung kausap moC. LOW – CONTACT CULTURES – social touching is rarely usedNOTE: Ito yung form of touch na ginagawa mo sa isang stranger pa sa;yoKINESICS/ BODY LANGUAGE Deals with physical movement of effective displays – (a) body as whole, (b) specific parts:face, hands, arms, eye, and facial expressions, (c) posture.NOTE: This has something to do with physical movements.EX: (1) Sa classroom nakasloutch ka. It could mean na tinatamad ka na magaral or wala ka ng gana.(2) kapag yung nanany mo nakacross arms paguwi mo. Meaning nito galit na sa’yo nanay mo. (3)Raise one eyebrow. Meaning you’re doubting the person. Associated to the use of emblems, physical gestures that support or reinforce what is saidverbally.NOTE: When we do certain action, it uses to support what we are saying.EX: You agree to something, you nod. (2) when you say no, you shake your head. Your bodylanguage kay says a lot.OCULESICS Deals with eye behavior – (a) static or fixed gaze vs dynamic eye movement Also called as eye contactNOTE: It has something to do with your eyes. Eye contact is important because it shows sencerityon what you’re doingEX’: Kapag Job interview tapos nakalook down ka. It means na di ka confident sa sinasabi mo. (2)Paalam ka ng overnight kasi may project kayo ng friends mo pero nakalook down ka. Maypossibility na ‘di ka payagan kasi ‘di ka mukhang sincere sa sinasabi moSYNCHRONY Amount of coordination in people’s behavior – (a) mirroring, (b) mimicry, or (c) behavioralmeshingNOTE: Ito yung kapag ginagaya ka.EX: (1) Ginagaya nung kapatid mo yung style mo or iniimitate nya yung ginagawa mo. Meaning nitois idol ka nya. (2) Pumunta ka sa friend mo sa Batangas tapos pagbalik mo naga “alaeh” ka na rin.Naadapt mo yung behavior ng tao and there’s a message na close kayo nung taoPARALANGUAGE/ VOCALICS Deals with vocal cues or nonphonemic qualities of language – (a) accent, (b) loudness, (c)tempo, (d) pitch, (e) cadence, (f) rate of speech, (g) nasality, (h) toneNOTE: “Para” means “not normal”. ‘Di sya common na nangyayari. Yung paralanguage, ito yungakala mo language sya pero it is how the language was delivered. Yung paralanguage may sinabikang word pero di sya tugma o naayon dun sa action moEx: Tinanong mo yung gf mo “galit ka ba? “then sumagot sya na ‘di sya galit pero mataas yung tonong boses nya. It’s not the words that was used, but rather how it was said.TYPES OF VOCALICSA. VOCAL CHARACTERIZERS – laughing, crying, yeaning, and so onNOTE: When you saw someone crying and sinabi nya na ‘di naman sya malungkot. Meaningmalungkot talaga syaB. VOCAL QUALIFIERS – volume, rhythm, and tempoNOTE: Ito yung volume. Yung di raw galit pero yung boses parang nagtatampo/galitC.VOCAL SEGREGATE – sounds such as mmmm, uh – huh, oooooNOTE: Ito yung kapag na notice mo yung mga taong nagbibigay ng speech lagi sila nagsasabing”umm” “sooo”. Meaning you’re thinking of what you will say next or baka kinakabahan.D.VOCAL RATE – speed of how one talksNOTE: Ito yung kung gaano kabilis ka magsalita sa tao.EX: (1) Tumawag si groupmate tapos tinanong kung ano gagawin. Inexplain mo sa kanya ng mabiliskasi gusto mo na matapos yung usapan nyo. Meaning nito ayaw mo sya kausap. / nagmamadali kana (2) Tumawag si crush, tapos tinanong kung ano gagawin.. Then, mabagal mo sya inexplain kasigusto mo syang kausapARTIFACTS Deals with the communicative aspect of apparent objects visible in the room – art,possessions and so on.NOTE: It’s more on the things. Kung ano meron sa kwarto mo yun yung magiidentify kung ano katalagaEX: (1) Pumunta ka sa bahay ng friend mo tapos Nakita mo dami santo, bible, cross. Meaningreligious yung family. (2) Dami BTS Posters. Ibig sabihin BTS fan ka (3) Dami books sa room momeaning book lovers kaOLFACTICS Deals with different types of smells Closely related to proxemicsNOTE: It has something to do with the sense of smell. EX: ‘Di mo pa nakikita yung kaklase mo peronaamoy mo na nandyan na sya kasi sa pabango nyaSILENCE How absence of sound affects the communication scenarioNOTE: Silence affect the communication scenario kasi pwede maging awkward or mag convey namay problem (1) Nagtatawanan kayo ng friends mo tapos yung isa nyong friend tahimik. Meaningmay iniisip sya or problem. Sometimes silence conveys that we want to be aloneAPPEARANCE Deals with the physical aspects of (a) body shape, (b) hair color and skin tones, (c)grooming, (d) dress and appearance enhancements.NOTE: This is how we express ourselves. We have different interpretation dun sa appearance ng taobased on what we know, environment na kinalakihan natin and it is something you can’t blame butdon’t use it as a way to judge or discriminate peopleEX: May nakitang kang may tattoo yung tao, possible na artist yung tao na yun. (2) body shape canconvey message. it has something to do with their health.ENVIRONMENT Communicative value of physical space – (a) room size, (b) color, (c) accessibility and (d)locationEX: (1) Pag sa school tapos yung color ng mga room is green/blue kasi raw malamig sa mata (2)Room size, nilagay kayo sa isang maliit ng room tapos isa lang electricfan, You may think na kayakayo nilagay dun kasi ‘di kayo nagbabayad ng tuition. (3) location: daming nagiinuman sa certainplace, madilim. Pwede kang matakot na dumaan dun kasi you’re not use to that place.N NCA CREDO FOR ETHICAL COMMUNICATION(APPROVED BY THE NCA LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL, NOVEMBER 1999)Ethical communication is fundamental to responsible thinking, decision making, and thedevelopment of relationships and communities within and across contexts, cultures, channels, andmedia. Moreover, ethical communication enhances human worth and dignity by fosteringtruthfulness, fairness, responsibility, personal integrity, and respect for self and others.1. WE ADVOCATE TRUTHFULNESS, ACCURACY, HONESTY, AND REASON AS ESSENTIALTO THE INTEGRITY OF COMMUNICATION. HonestyNOTE: What we say or how we say it and how we respond can make or break trust. While ethicalcommunication, it should be honest and straight forward Factbased/AccuracyNOTE: As an ethical communicator, you should concern with verifying information becauseaccuracy matters. TruthfulnessNOTE: Without facts being reliable they are more likely to do harm or create injustice. It closelyrelated to clear thinkingNOTE: This principle of communication ethic is advocating truthfulness, accuracy, honesty andreason. Reason is something you are giving with support. When you give reason, it should besupported with evidence, documents, and so on. The reason plays an important role because itestablishes the integrity of communication. If you’re a person who lost his/her credibility, it wouldbe very hard for people to believe you. It promotes truthfulness, accuracy, honesty and reason asessential to the integrity of the communication. EX: Kilala ka as sinungaling. ‘Di ka na paniniwalaanng ibang tao and mahirap na iearn yung trust nila sa’yo.EXAMPLES:1. A conversation between the seller of exotic animals and the buyer.NOTE: It applies the first principle because as seller we need to gain the trust of our buyer, youmust provide full legitimate information about the exotic animal2. The announcement of protocols regarding CoVid19 needed to be abouttruthfulness, accuracy, honesty, and essential to the integrity of communication toavoid misinformation and confusion.NOTE: We can execute our advocacy by providing reliable and accurate information about covid19. Dapat may reasoning daw dito, so bale yung reason kaya nila ginawa yung announcement paramaging safe yung community and maging aware na rin3. Yani loves to read on beautician journals, and she decided to make a vlog onYouTube. She starts vlogging about beauty tips to share her gain knowledge. She isalways researching for her vlogs to make it informative. But she had never includedthe references/sources she’s using either in speech or description.NOTE: This scenario means the Yani violated the principle 1 because she didn’t include herreferences and it’s considered plagiarism. Hindi sya naging honest kaya nawawalan ng integrityyung binigay nyang information kasi ‘di nya binigyan ng credentials yung writer.4. One day, James was scrolling in his Facebook timeline when he saw a news flash ad.He clicked and read the article about Covid19 updates, but it was different fromwhat he watched at the news from their television.NOTE: Maraming fake news sa internet, di nagiging accurate yung information.IMPORTANCE To prevent any misunderstandingsNOTE: It prevents miscommunication. When you are careful in your words while addressing theaudience; it lessens the chances of misunderstanding between what you have spoken and what theyhave understood It enhances human worth and dignity and one will gain trustNOTE: By fostering responsibility, personal intergrity and respect for self and others. When youcommunicate, you try to develop relationship or trust with your audience. For the maintenance of good human relationship communication and expect the same ofothers.NOTE: Good communication build positive relationship.2.WE ENDORSE FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION, DIVERSITY OF PERSPECTIVE, AND TOLERANCEOF DISSENT TO ACHIEVE THE INFORMED AND RESPONSIBLE DECISIONMAKINGFUNDAMENTAL TO A CIVIL SOCIETY. The principle means that the right of free speech is linked to freedom of peacefully disagreenot just with one another, but also with the government.NOTE: “freedom of expression”  We all have the rights to express each and everyone’s opinion northe reaction we made while we are expressing it because it’s our opinion, but it will tell us how torespect, or view and how you understand that situation. We have rights to give opinions and viewsif it is necessary. You should think first kung anong tama sabihin kasi may consequence ‘toNOTE: “diversity of perspective, and tolerance of dissent to achieve the informed and responsibledecision making”  we all have different perspective with each other so we should how to respectother thought and ideas they are expressing. We shouldn’t tolerate someone who is expressing falseaccusation. We should seek authorized documents. In another section of this topic, we'll go on deeper into the legal background of freedom ofexpression. We'll just note that the right of freedom of expression and the right of each perspective areboth legal context of expressionNOTE: This principle tells that before we come up with certain decisions, we must be ready to heardifferent perspective. You must be prepared to listen to everyone. “Tolerance of dissent”  meaningno matter how disagreeable they are it’s our responsibility to listen to them because it would bevery important when we come up a decision. We always must endorse that freedom for others toexpress themselves to speak out before we have can come up with good decision. It’s very beneficialnot just for us individual but also for the society that we are living in. EX: (1) Before they turn itinto a law, it undergoes several readings and it listens to different people’s opinion and stand. (2)As a family, you are going to make decision after you discuss the prons and cons of a certainproblem; then that decision can be very well thought of.EXAMPLES1. IN GROUP REPORTING DISCUSSION We use open forums to share opinions and knowledge about the topics. We respect and value ideas from different members to avoid disagreement.2. IN PERFORMANCE FEEDBACK Other groups will provide comments and identify the weaknesses and strengths of theperformance, so that in the next group presentation they will perform better.NOTE: These two scenarios, nagrereflect sya sa 2nd principle kasi nagshashare sila ng informationand opinions and by addressing their differences, it will help them respect and understand yungperspective ng iba to avoid conflict3. Facebook post about body positivity yet shaming skinny people. However, people criticize thepost and told body positivity is for everyone.NOTE: Nagaaply dito yung 2nd principle kasi yung dinebunk nila yung opinion nung facebook nay unand cinall out nil ana dapat yung body positivity is for everyone.4. A post from a supporter of a politician telling misinformation about the opposing team. Butpeople correcting the information and putting facts about the person.NOTE: This also apply to 2nd principle kasi kinorrect nila yung nagspspread ng fake news andnaglagay sila ng reliable source to back up or idebunk yung fake newsIMPORTANCE It gives you the right to speak your mind freely on important issues in our society that canhelp to empower other people and give inspiration to others.NOTE: Powerful yung words natin in a way na it could have a positive or negative impact to others It allows people to share information, express beliefs, and emotions about different issueswithout interference by the public authority, but there are restrictions.NOTE: It is important to know our limitation. We shouldn’t use violence or other wrong things toharm other people who doesn’t have the same beliefs as ours instead we should correct themproperly3.WE STRIVE TO UNDERSTAND AND RESPECT OTHER COMMUNICATORS BEFOREEVALUATING AND RESPONDING TO THEIR MESSAGES.NOTE: This principle tells us that we need to make effort in understanding and always respectothers before giving a reaction. EX: Meron kang kaibigan na nagshashare ng opinion nya kung sinoyung gusto nyang maging president kaso bigla kang sumingit sa conversation, so unethical yun kasidapat pinatapos mom una sya bago ka magbigay nung opinion dun sa sinabi nyaNOTE: This principle is expressing the value of understanding and respecting other becausenowadays in social media, it’s very difficult for people to have a peaceful conversation with eachother’s specially if they different beliefs. So, what happen is they just react without even trying tocome up with meaningful response to what was being said. If you’re going to communicate withothers you must learn to listen and if you listen, you must understand first before you give yourreaction. Di naman pwede Yung opinion mo lang maririnig and respect their opinions if they reallybelieve that their candidate is right; then just respect that.EXAMPLES:1. A grumpy Client inquiring a condo.NOTE: So, sa scenario na ‘to galit na yung client mo so instead na magalit ka rin sa kanya, nagingkalamado ka lang and you responded respectfully.2. My friends and I talking about the differences in our beliefs.NOTE: You should respect people on what they believe in specially if it’s a religion. You don’t haveto fight that you have different beliefs instead you should respect each other3. Nina responded to a comment with a substance and in a civilized matter. Clinarify ni Nina yungsituation4. May gumawa ng issue about kay Alex Gonzaga na nagpalaglag daw sya ng anak. So yung asawa niAlex, nagcomment sya na wag nalang pakelaman yung private life nila.NOTE: Applicable yung principle dito kasi they are striving to understand and respect othercommunicators before evaluating and responding to their messages. Hinandle ni Mikee yungcomment in a respectful wayIMPORTANCE To be proactive in listeningNOTE: It is important to have a deep understand of what the speaker is trying to say aswell as whathe/she means To avoid misunderstandingNOTE: It shows us to be an active listener to understand to what the speaker wants to convey sothat we can respond appropriately to their message To create clarity of thoughts and expressionNOTE: Makakapagbigay ka ng clear thoughts and expression sa tao na yun nkapag nakinig ka sakanya Helps build or improve relationshipNOTE: It understand both parties To give efforts in every communicationNOTE: We are giving effort kasi nagtryrty tayo na maiintindihan sila at the same timemakapagcommunicate ng tama4.WE PROMOTE ACCESS TO COMMUNICATION RESOURCES AND OPPORTUNITIES ASNECESSARY TO FULFILL HUMAN POTENTIAL AND CONTRIBUTE TO THE WELLBEING OFFAMILIES, COMMUNITIES, AND SOCIETY.NOTE: Communication resources – refers to the things that enables us to communication liketextbook, social media and so on. People should always have access to all forms of communicationsuch as reading books, writing your concerns on your social media and so on.NOTE: “Fulfill human potential” – we need resources to access to this communication for us to bebetter individuals. EX: ABS CBN Shutdown – their goals is to give information to people but they areshutdown and its violating the people’s right to information. (2) Youtube. If there’s something youwant to learn, you can always have access to youtube and you can get some information there to dosomething; that’s fulfilling your potential as well.IMPORTANCE"We promote access to communication resources and opportunities as necessary to fulfill humanpotential and contribute to wellbeing of families, communities and society." Communication should be for EVERYONE CONNECT around the world. Develop understanding and convey information in DIFFERENT WAYS The more people accessible to communication, the more people are united as a community =COOPERATIONNOTE: This principle tells us that communication is for everyone. For every chance that we make,we make a communication. Through communication, we are able to have an understanding andconveyt information in different ways may it be verbal, nonverbal, visual or written. The morepeople is accessible to communication, the more people are united as a community. This establishesstrong relationship to people.EXAMPLES1. MANILA LGU PROVIDED FREE GADGETS FOR MANILENO STUDENTSErik and Jamaica are one of the recipients of it. Gadget is the channel for teachers and students to communicate in online class. Problem:Some students can't afford gadgets and internet. Providing free gadgets helped students who can't afford gadgets.NOTE: This situation applies to this principle because Isko Moreno gave some students a tablet toaccess to communicate and learn in onluine class while amid pandemic2. PROVIDING TEXTBOOKS TO STUDENTS IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLAccording to Erile's experience in high school, during the first month of the school year, the schooladministration provided free textbooks to all students at the high school to help in academics butshall return it at the end of the school year. Modules are written guide about the school curriculum. Communication is essential for quality education. Giving access to school modules contributes to the academic performance of high schoolstudents.NOTE: Napply yung principle dito kasi yung textbook is a form of communication para matuto yungmga student and mafullfil yung potential nila.. Also, yung mga gadgets din, makakatulong paramagkaroon tayo ng access to learn and makipagcommunicate sa classmate natin or dun sa studenstnatin.3.FACEBOOK'S COVID19 INFORMATION CENTER DATA FREE = more access to all FB users despite the lack of internet connectivity PURPOSE: give an update on what's the current state and status of our country and wouldabout COVID  19 FB gave access to all users about COVID – 19NOTE: Naapply yung principle dito kasi it is promoting communication by letting the users to havea free access to a particular information4. FACEBOOK's CRISIS RESPONSEPurpose: allow family members and friends to know whether a person is sate ducing an emergencyIt helps communicate to everyone your status and relieve them from worryNOTE: Naapply yung principle dito kasi it helps communicate to know the status of a person. Theycan notify their FB Friends that they are safe if ever man na may disaster na nangyari near theirlocation5.WE PROMOTE COMMUNICATION CLIMATES OF CARING AND MUTUAL UNDERSTANDINGTHAT RESPECT THE UNIQUE NEEDS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF INDIVIDUALCOMMUNICATORS.NOTE: This means that before having a communication we should take inconsideration thesituation needs and interest of our listeners at that time to have an effective and positivecommunication. We need to help feel the listeners that the y is valued and being transparenttowards our listeners or audience makes us look credible, honest with our information that weshare.NOTE: The 5th principle promotes the communication climates of caring and mutual understandingthat respect the unique needs and characteristics of individual communicators. So in acommunication scenario, if you are talking to someone and you know that person has difficulty/Then you would also make necessary adjustments EX: (1) News. There are giving a sign a language.The goal of communication is to make sure that no one is left out. So kung wala magsisign languagesa news. Those who have problem with hearing; they cannot really relate to what is being shown onthe news. They become inclusive because of sign language, they were able to take part in watchingthat news and they were able to understand. (2) If there’s a student who doesn’t speak up, usuallythe teachers try to do something that would include the student and make him feel that he is part ofthe class. It helps us feel that we belong in that group. (3) FB Pages. Pareparehas kayo ng interestand people in that group would make you feel that you belong in that groupEXAMPLES1. When there's a girl you only met at this event reaches out for you, compliments you, andtries to talk to you, you compliment her as well, and you try to find a connection; somethingyou and she can relate to, so you can have a meaningful conversation and prolong theconnections.NOTE: The principle was shown here kasi meron silang connection and nagtryrty ka na pahabainyung converstation by talking about different topics na makakarelate si girl2. My friend Neo recently asked me about his schoolwork, which he was finding difficult tomanage. So, I gave him emotional support and helped him with his schoolwork, and he promised todo the same for me.NOTE: This scenario applies to the principle because they share their opinions and ideas withoutawkwardness, and they care about each other’s state and this means that they mutualunderstanding that shows the sympathy of two parties.3. A TikToker named Baby exotica trying to inspire women who do not appreciate and acceptthe imperfections on their bodies. In one of her TikTok videos, she shared her own flaws tomotivate every woman those imperfections are normal and natural.NOTE: This reflects that 5th principle because the influencer is concerned about other women. Hervideo message shows the common experience and feelings of every woman who are insecure aboutthemselves4. At Twitter, a group of people agreed to campaign Leni Robredo to become the president forthe betterment of the country, the mutual discussions, values for the widespread of hope uponvoting for Leni, mutual agreement of the said candidate, andrespect for one's opinions and thoughts for the said candidate.NOTE: It applies the 5th principle because they are building mutual understanding and they respectone’s opinion and thoughts to agree in campaigning leni robredo to become the president.IMPORTANCE It helps us to appropriately respond to the situationNOTE: By using our empathy it helps us understand the emotion or feelings of others and becauseof that they are more likely to connect and share their experience to us because they know that wecan respond appropriately to their situation. It deepens the relationshipNOTE: By knowing that you are having a common interest or characteristics with yourcommunicators; it creates strong bonds relationship It creates meaningful conversationNOTE: This conversation could validate the feeling or expression of one another that can createhonest conversation that would help the communicators to understand each perspective andopinions in life. It is effective to be open with one anotherNOTE: By sharing our own opinions and feelings with each other without any awkwardness it willmore likely to be more comfortable that we could understand other’s situation6.WE CONDEMN COMMUNICATION THAT DEGRADES INDIVIDUALS AND HUMANITYTHROUGH DISTORTION, INTIMIDATION, COERCION, AND VIOLENCE, AND THROUGH THEEXPRESSION OF INTOLERANCE AND HATRED.NOTE: (1) Distortion means misleading information or fake news. (2) Intimidation  the action ofintimidating someone or the state of being intimidated, (3) Coercion  the practice of persuadingsomeone to do something by using force or threats, (4) Violence – involve in physical forceintended to hurt, damage, or kills someone or something. (4) Expression of intolerance –unwillingness to accept views, beliefs or behavior that differ from once own, (5) Hatred – intensedislike or ill will. This principle tells us that we don’t have the right to spread falls humor rosomeone because of hatred. In communication, it is inevitable that information said by the speakeris sometimes different from the receiver because we don’t what is the truth. We don’t have an ideaon the topic, and we tend to believe the humorsNOTE: It tells us that we should avoid words that degrade other people. EX: (1) Post of Aljur.Dinegrade nya si Kylie Padilla in a way na sinabi niya na si kylie daw yung unang nagcheat. Theycould have discussed between themselves (2) Kim Seon Ho cancelled sa korea dahil sa issue nila ngex nya. Napullout lahat ng projects nya kaya communication is powerful talagaEXAMPLES1.Opinions that lead to miscommunicationNOTE: So, in this scenario, connected sya sa principle because the person posted another personbecause they have different perspective at the same time hatred was the cause why it was posted.2.Insulting someone because of their appearance.NOTE: Because of his hatred towards a person, he started to insult her flaws. Because of his words,it affects the person on how she thinks about herself3.Misleading information that leads to miscommunicationNOTE: There are videos of Marcos on tiktok and fb na ineexaggerate or iniiba yung achievements.We must check the credibility and source4.Maria Ressa received a series of death threats following Pres. Duterte's hate statements againstthe journalistNOTE: Nagthrethreat si du30 kay maria ressa na fraud daw siya. Rude yung ginamit nyang words,we need to choose our word carefully especially if we are a public servant because it can greatlyinfluence a lot of people.7.WE ARE COMMITTED TO THE COURAGEOUS EXPRESSION OF PERSONAL CONVICTIONS INPURSUIT OF FAIRNESS AND JUSTICE. This means that the people that are referred to in this context, must have the courage andintegrity to voice out their personal opinions and beliefs to preserve society’s fairness andto serve justice.NOTE: We should not just keep to ourselves if we know that there’s something is wrong. You shouldhave the courage to speak out. What happen kasi if majority is not doing it then we tend not to do italso even though I’s correct.EXAMPLES1. He confronts his classmates who are at the top of the building spitting on students. Theyrejected to go the principal office, so he gets help from the principal but in the end he stillget threaten.NOTE: He believe that what he did was right, and it can bring justice to those people who are spit onand unaware on the situation2. Some of her friends unfriended her on FB because they have different political views. Shecalls them out that they should respect and have a friendly debate.NOTE: It is connected sa 7th principle because cinall out nya yung friend nya and pinaintindi nya namay iba’t iba silang political views and they should respect that instead of unfriending them on FB.3. The Nuezca Murder Case – Nuezca was a policeman that killed a mother and his son, tis casewas brought to light when it went viral online, and a lot of people were enraged and expressed theirbeliefs and spoke upNOTE: If that person didn’t post that video; the victim will get their justice knowing that themurderer is a policeman, the ca gets away from that crime since he can manipulate the scenario.4. The Antiterror bill issue  some people wanted the bill to be approved while some otherswanted to cancel it out. This is based on the personal convicetion of the people on what they thinkwill lead to the greater good.NOTE: Filipino voice out their opinion regarding this issue because they know that this bill isunjust.IMPORTANCE The importance of this principle is that it teaches people to speak up and stand up againstunfair and unjust situations that happens to themselves or to other people. Another reasonwhy it’s significant is that it aims for the betterment of society on what the people think isrightNOTE: Our voices have power so we need to speak up because it could save people’s life, or it couldhave a better cause8.WE ADVOCATE SHARING INFORMATION, OPINIONS, AND FEELINGS WHEN FACINGSIGNIFICANT CHOICES WHILE ALSO RESPECTING PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY. This is about advocating privacy and confidentiality whenever we share information. Thisprinciple is trying to tell us that we can share information, but we have to remember thatwe need to respect the privacy and confidentiality of that personEXAMPLE:1.There’s a group of women na kinuha raw lahat ng pagkain dun sa table ng community pantry andtheir faces were shown on social media through the cctv on one of the universesNOTE: Mali yung ginawa nila kasi pinost agad na social media dapat shinare na lang sya for thosepeople who are concern on that issue. It violates their privacy and confidentiality because theirfaces were shown on social media, and it affects their reputation. It’s hard to redeem their selvesbecause they were already judged by those people in social media.2.When you see some news from other country, they didn’t show the face of the suspect in a crimebecause the person hasn’t proved guilty yet.NOTE: Newspaper can get sued if they show the faces of this suspect. It protects the privacy of thesuspect since he/she is not yet proven guilty. This is an example of sharing information because thepublic deserves to know that there’s a killer around, but they have to still protect the persona untilthey are proven guilty.3.When we look at Kpop groups and other Korean star, you don’t see much of their family in publicor news written about their family because that’s how they value confidentialityNOTE: We also need to consider that these people have families so this is a private matter. If there’san issue about that actor/actress their family will somehow not be affected or involved in thatissue, and it will serve as a protection9.WE ACCEPT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE SHORT AND LONGTERM CONSEQUENCES FOR OUROWN We bear responsibility for the information we provide when we communicate, not just forourselves, but also for others. Whatever happens in every engagement – whether it’s a bigand small interaction – we must understand that there will be a consequence or aresponsibility for which we must be accountable.NOTE: We can say communication can say communication can lead to something, it’s either positiveor negative outcome. We cannot also take back what we’ve spoken because words have the powerto leave a lasting impression. It has potential to influence once life, so we need to be careful on whatwe sayNOTE: For the 9th communication ethic, it’s just telling us that we need to be responsible for wordsthat coming out on our mouth. “Think before you click” whether we upload picture or video wemust think twice before posting it because that’s our way of communicating and we should do it ina right way. It could have a short term or longterm effect to a person. Short term effect – immediateeffect. Long term – as of now we might not see the effect but in the future we might.EXAMPLES1.A Japanese student ask her the direction for the main college building and then she pointed abuilding. Later, she realized that she pointed out the wrong building. However, she met theforeigner in the cafeteria and apologized to him and refer to the school’s guard to ask directionNOTE: This is connected to the principle because it could have a big impact to the foreigner studentif she didn’t apologize and misguided that student. That student would have been lost in the campusand could impact the student’s reputation in that school2.Her classmate refuses to collaborate with them. All the members wanted her to speak with herclassmate and call her out that if she didn’t comply, she will be kick out of the group. Her classmatecursed at her, and she was not use to it, so she reported her to the teacher. Though she says sorry toher at the end she wasn’t allowed to join to her group.NOTE: This is connected to the principle because it didn’t change the fact that her classmate is abitch. Even if her classmate apologized to her, the damage has been done and she was alreadyaffected by the words that her classmate said to her. Also, her classmate was a rude ass bitchbecause she stated that “it’s just her personality” like girl, that is absurd. Kailangan nya ng characterdevelopment and she shouldn’t make those dumb excuses to be that rude.3.A girl posted a tiktok video about the VIP and Genad ticket. She said that she and other peoplewho went to concert were not the same cause she was in VIP section while others were in Genadonly. Many fans were offended by her post specially those who can’t afford VIP ticket though sheapologized on her last video, her reputation has already been damaged since other people wouldknow her as a person who discriminate people.NOTE: It is related to this principle since her video was offensive to most people it will affect herreputation and image for a long time and people would see her as someone who has a badpersonalityBuknoy and Tricycle Driver controversy – she said people should strive harder and do their bestbecause if not they would end up working as a tricycle driver. Most of the netizen feel offended toher statement and degrading to tricycle drivers. After that incident, Buknoy and her managementdid a public apologyNOTE: This is connected to the principle because she would be seen by many people as a toxicperson and it could have a longterm effect to her reputation.IMPORTANCE It has an impact on other people so be more aware and careful We should be responsible and cautious so we can lessen using hurtful words Communication is irreversible so be reflective and examine our words. what communication is and how we goabout itconsciously or subconsciously thispresentationor lecture is going to have three partsso the first oneobviously would be communicationprocesses second part would becommunication principles and third partis going to beethical considerations of communicationso without further adolet us begin with the first one socommunication processesuh as we all know communication is averycomplex process and there's noone model that could actuallyencapsulate everythingabout the communication process wellhoweverthese models of communication processescould help usbetter understand what really happens inthe systematicprocess of communication in a waybecause it captures the elements thetenets and the various aspects that areinvolvedwhen we are communicating so thesemodels actually paint a picture of theprocessesand will let us see where we are in thecommunication what we serveas and what is really happening okaybetween us and the other components sowe have three models of communicationprocessesthat are created and these aretransmission model interaction modeland the transaction model okay althoughthese models may havesimilarities uh they also havedifferencesokay and later on we will see thedifferenceamong these three okay so let's proceedwiththe transmission model so that in inhere um communication is actuallypresented aslinear it's very linear so it's onewaycommunication okay so this modelactually isjust very simple as it is so you can seehere you have thesender okay and then you have here thereceiverand it's very oneway so the senderencodes the message and then the messagegoes through the channel which can bewritten channelor spoken channel or whatever channelyou have thereand then it's being decoded by thereceiver okaynow by the way when we sayencoding and decoding these are theprocessesinvolved in communication that lets usunderstandwhat's happening with the message sowhen we say encodingokay this is the process of translatingokay thoughts into communicationagain encoding is the process oftranslating thoughtsinto communication okay while decodingis the process of translatingcommunicationinto thoughts okay so let me give you anexample tobetter for you to better understand sofor example my thoughts i'm hungry okaythat's my thoughti'm going to encode it and translate itinto communication i'm going to say tomy mom for example mom i'm hungry let'sgo eat some pizzaokay so that sentence that i utteredwould be my communicationand behind that communication are mythoughts thati'm hungry i want to eat okay so iencoded it through that particularsentenceand then my channel is of course spokenchannel and it's through verbaland then my mom for example would decodeitlike okay she received the communicationand then she would translate it into herthoughts that okay my daughter is hungryokay so as simple as that okay that'selementary way ofexplaining it so as you can see here thearrow would just be one headed arrow sofrom the encoderto the receiver or the decoder thecommunication happens so it's veryoneway it's very simplisticand then there are some noises umoutside the communication wellthe noise would probably represent wouldrepresentum the communication barriers or somedistractionsthat may affect the communication okayso it could be background noise physicalnoise it could be psychological noise orphysiological noiseokay whatever noise you have there couldaffect this one weightchannel of communication right so thereyou goso um for example this particularlecturewhen you watch it it's going to be oneway because you can interact with meyou can't send feedback immediately youcan'treally respond to me because this is arecorded lecture rightso this is just me encoding and thensending it to you and then you decodingthe lectureall right so that's very one way nextlet's havethe interaction models in interactionmodel you have herea more complex process so as you can seehereyou have also the sender receiver centerreceiver howeverhere you can see that oneperson could serve both as the senderand the receiverokay and the other person also couldserveboth a sister sender and the receiverokay now this speaks a lot of thedifference becausethese participants alternate positionsas the sender and the receiver so thatmeans it's not one wayrather it's twoway communication rightso againin transmission model one way or verylinearinteraction model twoway communicationwhich allows the participants to sendfeedback okay through their own channelsso as you can see here okayencoding for example and then themessage is being decodedand then once it's being decoded itcould actuallyprovide some feedback okay to the senderand now the sender becomes the receiverokay and now the receiver becomes thesenderright so it's actually very cyclical sointeraction model is very cyclicalbecause there is a channel forfeedbackingand feedbacking could be done in so manywaysit could be verbal or nonverbal like asimple nodcould be a feedback for example and thereceiver can actuallysense that it's a sign ofunderstanding or agreement or whateverso thatso that is actually being encoded ordecoded into thoughts of agreement okayand then you've got here for thebrackets you've got hereuh psychological context and physicalcontext so that meansum you're not only uh you're not onlyconsideringthe two of you rather you're alsooperating withincontexts okay so contexts are whereand when the communication takes placeokay so it could be the physical contextlike are you in a room are you in aclassroom are you visually learning avirtuallylearning are you um in the church okayare you at the park so something likethat and then psychological context likeum what's the psychological distancebetween you and the receiverare you very close to each other are younot very close because that affects thewayand the channel of your communicationright um if the psychological contextuh would dictate that you guys are youknow you guys just met for examplelike right now you guys just met ofcourse you cannot reallyuh you cannot really crack jokes thatare too insensitivebecause you just met each other so youhave to test the waters first rightand lastly which i think is the mostsophisticated modelthat's created for communication this iswhat we call the transaction modeland the transaction model why why do isay thatit's very sophisticated because thetransaction modelallows us to understand thatcommunication does not only sendmessagesbut communication creates socialrealities okaywhen we say social realities these arethethe community that we are moving in itsnorms itsrules its language community okay soeverything that's in itand how we shape these things includingcultureand multiculture okay so um creatingsocialrealities is very complex and intricateand sophisticated and communicationis one prime mover of it okay so withoutcommunication we cannot reallyshape our social realities because it'sonevery big tool for us to shape thecivilization right sorry for thatokay so as we can see here we don'treallycall the participants sender or receiverokay we do away with that labelso here we call them communicatorright communicator so all theparticipants are communicator it doesn'tmatter if there's the center of thereceiverwhat matters is that they both involvethemselvesand participate in social realitiescreationokay so here when we are creating socialrealities wecocreate meaning right we cocreatemeaningand through which context we have threecontexts hereuh for context i mean so you've gotphysical and psychological context whichi've already mentioned earlierand then we've got here social contextso when we say social context these arethe the norms of the society the ruleswhether embedded or explicit rulesof the societies right so these are yoursocial contexthow you move as a social being right howyou participate in your community howyou are as a citizen for exampleokay the cultural context would beuh your you know cultural differencescultural sensitivity you know you haveto operateas a communicator sensitive of the needsand the welfareof the different ethnicities differentgenderdifferent races okay this this speaks ofyour cultural contextokay how do you go about dealing with umthe indigenous people for example how doyou go about dealing with foreignershow do you live or experience living ina foreign countryor how do you treat othersfrom different um political socialeconomic backgrounds for example okayand then relational contexts so for therelational contextum this is uh how you are relatedto the communicators for exampleare you related by blood are you relatedbyjust kinship are you related byfriendshipsomething like that or it could alsospeak of psychological distance justlike what i said earlierright so um if we are talking to thepresidentfor example that is going to be verydifferent from how we talk touh pal okay so thesecontexts play a big role incommunicationso unlike the otherunlike the other two the the previoustwowhich are the um the transmission modeland the interaction model thetransaction modelis way too sophisticated way moresophisticated rightbecause it takes a look at communicationas a as a creationof social reality so that's your keywordokay creating social reality cocreatingmeaningso with regards to communicationprinciples wellsome people just you know just say thatokay communication happensthat's it but the thing is there areprinciples that are actuallyembedded why this happens rightand knowing these consciously wouldactuallymake us appreciate communication moreandwould help us you know relate to othersmorebecause we understand that thereare really um necessary functions ofcommunication and they don't just happenokay they are there for a purpose okaythey are therewe do we do communication because weneed to and not just because it's thereokayso um let's start with the first onecommunication is integrated intoall parts of our lives this is veryexpensive selfexplanatory becauseyou know every waking hour of our liveswe communicatecommunication is there is integrated inourpersonal lives communication isintegrated in our professional livescommunication is integrated intoanything that we engage innext is communication meets our needs sowhat are these needs so we havedifferent types of needs likephysical needs instrumental needs youknow relational needsand identity needs okay so let's gofirst with physical needs so physicalneedscommunication helps us maintain ourphysicaland psychological wellbeing okay sojust by communicatinglike how hungry you are you'recommunicating a psychologicalas a physiological need already right sofor examplein instrumental needs communication helpusachieve our shortterm and longtermgoals okay whatever those arethey are instruments and they'reinstrumental to our lives okayrelational needs we um communicationhelp us understand our relational needswhen wemaintain and develop relationships withothers when we try torelate be intimate with others when wetry to initiate conversationwe try to build any kind of relationshipright andlastly identity needs communication helpuspresent ourselves in unique waysokay and our own unique communicationstylesso all these needs are being met bycommunication rightso next up is communication is a processwhich i won't delve deeper now becausewe've just discussedthe processes of communication and ihope that we all understood that so nextup is communication is guided byculture and context so we all know howimportant cultureand context are in terms ofcommunication because they helpus define and appreciate and perceivecommunication betterand they actually influence how weoperate in the communication scenariosthat we're gettinginto so culture wouldactually help us understand sensitivitymoreand it would uh help us knowget to know each and every person thatwe talk tobetter right and then context wouldactuallyhelp us uh assess the communicationscenariomore and how we should act towards itright andwhat are the proper decarteum the socialnorms etc etcso we are coming from different culturaland contextualorientations so for example westerncultureand context versusour culture and context are very muchdifferentso westerners don't really use po andoppo so it might soundawkward to us and it might sound thatthey are not really polite butit's not but it's just that theirculture doesn't use that next iscommunication is learnednow while everybody is actually umendowed with the gift or the ability orthe capacity to learn language andproduce languagewe learn it differently right againthat's because of the context we grow inwe grow up in it's because of the peoplewewe grew up with it's because of peoplewe have interacted with so somehowthese things are actually being learnedby usas communicators okay let's move on tothe next partso communication has functions andaccording to craig there are seventraditions ofhow communication functions as okay sothe first oneis the social psychological traditionwhichis that communication is used asinterpersonal interaction and influencesosocial all right social socialwe are all born social animals we're allbones born social beingsso we really are bound to interactokay we really are bound to communicatenow psychological this has something todo with the behavior of peopleand how communication shapes andreshapesthat behavior and how it's beinginfluenced by the way we communicate andto whom we communicate rightso that's the social psychologicaltraditioncommunication is basically an influenceto how we are as socialbeings and as psychological beingsokay next up is the cybernetic traditionwhere in communication is used as asystem of information processingso again um this has something to dowith your encoding or decoding becauseum we need to we need communication inorder for us to serve our purposeand understanding the worldthat we live in okay so it's just thatand the world that we live inhas so many webs and networkslike cyber cyber networks right so manythreads of relationships like we are ina very very huge weband we are all intertwined we are allinteractingwe're all interdependent so that'sactually wherecybernetic um um came fromokay it actually is inspired by thethought ofthe cyber uh cyber world likethe like the internet for examplethere's there's lots ofuh it's the information highway socommunication is like thatwe are in an information highway and weconnectto almost everything and everyone okayso it's the information processingnext is the rhetorical tradition whereincommunication functions asan artful public address so whenever youhearspeeches for example whenever you hearcampaigns whenever you hearcost supports so for example politiciansdoing their speeches for exampleyou guys doing your speeches okaytowards the end of the termokay that's being rhetorical okay that'sthe artfulpublic address right okay next upis oh sorry the semiotic tradition okaythis one symbiosis same musicsorry symbiotic would have something todo with the study ofsigns and symbols okay so symbioticrememberyour keyword is signs and symbols socommunication processis the process of sharing meaningthrough scienceso for example we don't just have verbalcommunication we also have nonverbalcommunicationbut we also have images as form ofcommunication we also have colorsas forms of communication so for exampletraffic lights skate traffic lights havesomething to do withnorms with rules traffic rulesum to be exact so if you seecolor green basically that saysgo but that doesn't really have the goin it or that doesn't have a recorded govoice in itbut just seeing the color green wouldsaythat it's go and you would reallyunderstand it so just by simplya color okay or a sign that has ameaningyou have already communicated aparticularmessage right this is very importantbecauseimagine if you wouldn't reallyunderstand these signs and symbolsaround youthen chaos would be there okayso just take a look at the drivers forexamplesome drivers in the philippines wouldseego as as okay goand then the orange or the orange dubait would mean slow down and thenthis the the red would meango fastest to beat it okay sosomething like that and then accidentswould accidents would happenjust by not taking into considerationscience ensembleschaos could happen okay that's howimportant communication isin this tradition okay next is thesocial cultural traditionso again um social and cultureso you've got communication as thecreation and the enactment of socialrealityso if you go back to my explanationin the transaction model so that'spretty much it communicationactually serves the purpose ofcocreatingmeaning okay in the world we live inokay right next up isthe critical tradition okay the criticaltraditionthe man is communication as a reflectivechallenge of unjust discourseso um this isgoing to be very i know very uhchallenging in a sense it's the mostchallenging tradition i guess becauseyou have to be serving a purpose or acauseso critical tradition does not onlyembrace what's thereokay so critical tradition is beingcriticalof what communication is being served ina particularposition paper or in a particular publicaddress or in a sauna for exampleyou're not just going to embrace it as awhole you are going to be critical aboutitand you're going to analyze it andyou're going to seewhether there's something that's notreallyfair whether there's something that'sunjustwhether the discourse offends someone orsome ethnicitiesor whether they are actually beingoffensive and rude and harshand it might actually is violating aparticular right of people okay sothings like that so you don't justembrace it as a wholeyou'll be critical about it socommunication functions also as like awatchdog okay in terms ofthe communication that is happeningrightokay so the next thing and the last partof this lecture is going to becommunication ethicsand uh may i present to you therhetorical triangle okaythis is actually what uh the the pillarsofthe pillars of communication rightso we have here ethos pathos andlogos okay logo sorry logo yetlogos um would stand for logic so whenyou communicate you have to be rationalyou have to be um by reasonokay you have to be reasonable and youhave to behonest you know in um you have to haveintegrityokay you have to protect the this likethe sanctityand the honor of the communication andof course your wordsand then you've got pathos here sopathos would be aboutemotions okay emotion so communicationwould be null without emotions soemotions are always involvedwhen we communicate right and then ethoswould beethics okay it would be about the moralsit would be about the ideals and theprinciplesokay communication has to observe allthese three pillarsit has to have emotions into it okay ithas to have logic and it has to haveit has to consider ethics okay sospeaking of ethicslet's proceed to the fundamentals ofethical communications we have threeand it's very very selfexplanatoryresponsible thinkingdecision making and development ofrelationships so we do communicationwhen we do communication we have to beresponsiblefor what we think we have to thinkbefore we clickfor example we have to think a hundredtimes beforewe taint a reputation of someone orsomebody orum before we we hurt someone's feelingsbecausewe can never take back what we havealready said or what we have alreadywritten rightso it's forever there so think 100 timesokay nowum you have to decide whether to say itor not whether to write or notyou have to decide how you say it whereyou say itwhat you say about it okay and then ofcourse theultimate ultimate reason why you want tocommunicateis that you have to develop you want todevelop relationshipsand nurture these relationships okay soum the next part of these would be uhthe communication ethics adaptedfrom the credo of ethical for ethicalcommunication 2017so i left i already uploaded theum the powerpoint so you justtake a look at these because these arevery selfexplanatory you can justread it on your own and understand it onyour own andif you've got questions uh the thread isjust availableso to sum up this lecture we have beentalking about communication processescommunication principles and ethicalconsiderations and communications theseare the fundamentals of communicationLesson 01: Communication: Process, Principles and EthicsOutcomes:At the end of the lesson you are expected to:1. Increase knowledge in communication, its processes and principles hence becomemore skillful communicators;2. Heighten awareness on communication ethics resulting conscientious andrespectful interactions; and3. Apply the gained knowledge through class exercises.What is Communication?Communication is derived from the Latin word “common” which means,“belonging to many” and “communico” means to confer with others. It is the mutualexchange of information, ideas, and understanding by any effective means.Communication is the interaction of words from a society and thus gives pleasure andan increased understanding of life.Communication is a human act of sending and receiving of messages whereinterpretations are normally constructed in the process. What is Purposive Communication?Purposive communication is an intentional communication that happens within the bounds of specificcontexts. is a communication applied in a specific setting, environment, scene, socialrelations and cultureContexts affect the process of sending and receiving of messages; semantics ormeanings, choice of channels, words and methods of delivery.Contexts include:1 . S e t t i n g s a n d e n v i r o n m e n t Family, school, workplace, religious communities2. Social Relationship Friends, husband and wife, parent child, colleagues/bosssubordinate in theoffice3. Scenes which include place, time, and occasion Business meeting, job interview, social gathering parties, weddings, etc.4. Culture History, tradition, beliefs, norms, valuesCommunication as a Process https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/communicationatwork/chapter/13thecommunicationprocess/Communication is a process whereby people create and transmit meaning throughthe exchange of verbal and nonverbal messages in a particular context. (Oetzel, 2009:11) Communication: The Basic PrinciplesElements of Communication1. SENDERIt is expected that one possesses the skills required in the transmitting messages.These skills could include the ability to use the language that the receiver understands. Forinstance, it will be inept to use the English language if your audience is keener on using theirlocal language in a Philippine or Asian setting. Along with using the appropriate language isthe application of linguistics features such as correct grammar, phonetics (for spokenmessage), choice of words or jargons for an appropriate audience, sentence construction,and discourse competence.The sender’s credibility is of great importance as well. People will more likely reject amessage if the sender is proven to be unreliable. The message will only be as good and validas its source.2. DELIVERYThis is an equally important skill that a sender should be able to exhibit properly. Inoral communication, this could include good voice projection, use of appropriate eyecontact, proper articulation of words, and emphasis on important words. Delivery could alsoinclude using appropriate intonation in order to avoid misunderstanding on the part of thelistener/receiver or conflict between the interlocutors. For instance, a high pitch intonationor an overly emphatic tone might be offensive to listener; hence, the speaker should bemindful of the manner of delivery. 3. RECEIVERReceivers of messages must have good listening and comprehension skills. Goodlistening requires one to focus on what is conveyed and as much as possible eliminate allpossible distractions or noises (physical, environmental, psychological, and emotional) thatwould hinder one from understanding the message. On the other hand, goodcomprehension skills necessitate sharpness of cognition, which can be achieved throughcontinuous studies and acquisition of information and knowledge.Receiver must: Must have good listening and comprehension skills Eliminate all possible distractions or noises.Types of noise (physical, environmental, psychological, emotional) Sharpness of cognition through continuous studies and acquisition ofinformation and knowledge 4. MESSAGEFor message to be accurately understood and positively received the Cs incommunication maybe followed:THE FIVE C’s IN COMUNICATION1. Courtesy also known as politeness.Ways to demonstrate courtesy: using polite words and tone to show respect to the receiver of the message. applying tact and diplomacy developing the “WE” attitude using positive words instead of negative being considerate of the feelings of the receiver selecting genderfree terms responding promptly to important messages CompletenessCourtesy Clarity ConcisenessConcreteness4. Clarity may involve correct word usage, grammar, pronunciation, sentence construction anddelivery. Messages which are unclear oftentimes do not achieve their desired effect.3. Conciseness lengthy messages can result in information overload andoverwhelm listeners/readers of messages. Conciseness is saying what needs to be said in as fewwords as possible. Avoid flowery words.4. Concreteness this refers to being specific. To demonstrate concreteness, providingexamples whenever necessary makes a message more comprehensible.5. Completeness To avoid ambiguity, messages should not leave out importantdetails that a receiver expects to know such as answers to the What, Who, Where, When,Why and How questions.5. CHANNELSSThe choice of channel may depend on the availability, practicality, and its impact on thereceiver.Channels: Telephone Radio Television Printed texts (books, newspapers, magazines, journals, posters, etc.) Communication technologies (smart phones, tablets, computers)6. FEEDBACKMessages in communication will always have an effect on the receiver. There aremessages that trigger positive reactions and at ties negative depending on the kind ofmessages relayed, how it is communicated and how it is interpreted. It is thereforeimportant to know the feedback of our audience/s (listener/reader) in order to make thenecessary clarifications and revisions of our messages. Communication: Barriers and NoiseExperts assert that noise or barriers in communication maybe due to environment,physical, psychological and emotional conditions. Other than these aspects, differences inlanguage, gender, and culture can also be barrier in communication.For communication to be effective, this barriers/noise should be mitigated or ifpossible eliminated. Gender and culture differences as communication barriers however canbe more challenging to control and could not be eliminated.Ethics in CommunicationWhat is Communication Ethics? ETHICS a system of moral principles deals with values relating to human conduct,with respect to the rightness and wrongness of certain actions and to the goodness andbadness of the motives and ends of such actions.COMMUNICATION ETHICSThe principle governing communication, the right and wrong aspects of it, the moralimmoral dimensions relevant to Interpersonal communication are called the ethics ofInterpersonal communication.COMMUNICATION ETHICSMaintaining the correct balance between the speaking and listening the legitimacy offear and emotional appeal degree of criticism and praiseCOMMUNICATION ETHICSA death or an overdose of either of the factors could result in unfavorableconsequences. The principle of honesty on both sides should be completely applied becauseany amount of insincerity from either the listener or the speaker would not be prudent.Regardless of an individual's moral principle (relativistic), ethics in communicationcan take a universal approach, which can be displayed in several ways including but notlimited to the following:1. Adhering to the golden rule or the platinum rule.The golden rule asserts to always treat others in the same way you want to be treatedwhile the platinum rule according to Bennett (1980) stresses on trending others the waythey wish to be treated. Ethical communicators address people of other cultures with thesame respect that they would like to receive themselves (Jandt, 2013:37).2. Considering the feelings of the receiver.Humans are not only cognitive but also emotional beings. If we are less careful withor words, tone, and nonverbal gestures, people could be negatively affected. To be ethical incommunicating with others, it will be best to maintain tact and diplomacy in ourcommunications. 3. Acknowledging the source of ideas & information.Sources of ideas and information should be acknowledged appropriately at all times.It is unethical and unlawful for someone to convey other people's intellectual propertywithout recognizing the author's names or organizations.4. Speaking the truth.This is a universal rule. Unfortunately, there are also those who (for whatever reason)seem to enjoy propagating falsehood. Take for instance the abundance of fake news or whatothers call alternative facts on the Internet. Obviously, this is a violation of communicationethics and should be stopped by all means.Understand how communication meets various needs.Be able to define communication.Have a foundational understanding of the communication process.Be able to explain how various contexts impact communication.Taking this course will likely change how you view communication. Most of us admit that communication is important, but it’s often in the back of our minds or viewed as something that “just happens.” Putting communication at the front of your mind and becoming more aware of how you communicate can be informative and have many positive effects. When I first started studying communication as an undergraduate, I began seeing the concepts we learned in class in my everyday life. When I worked in groups, I was able to apply what I had learned about group communication to improve my performance and overall experience. I also noticed interpersonal concepts and theories as I communicated within various relationships. Whether I was analyzing mediated messages or considering the ethical implications of a decision before I made it, studying communication allowed me to see more of what was going on around me, which allowed me to more actively and competently participate in various communication contexts. In this section, as we learn the principles of communication, I encourage you to take note of aspects of communication that you haven’t thought about before and begin to apply the principles of communication to various parts of your life.Communication Meets NeedsAs a student with years of education experience, you know that communication is far more than the transmission of information. The exchange of messages and information is important for many reasons, but it is not enough to meet the various needs we have as human beings. While the content of our communication may help us achieve certain physical and instrumental needs, it also feeds into our identities and relationships in ways that far exceed the content of what we say.Physical needs include needs that keep our bodies and minds functioning like air, food, water, and sleep. Communication, which we most often associate with our brain, mouth, eyes, and ears, actually has many more connections to and effects on our physical body and wellbeing. At the most basic level, communication can alert others that our physical needs are not being met. Even babies cry when they are hungry or sick to alert their caregiver of the need to satisfy physical needs. Current research indicates that social connection has a huge impact on longevity, our immune systems, and other aspects of physical health (Seppala, et al., 2014).Instrumental needs Include needs that help us get things done in our daytoday lives and achieve short and longterm goals. We all have short and longterm goals that we work on every day. Fulfilling these goals is an ongoing communicative task, which means we spend much of our time communicating for instrumental needs. Some common instrumental needs include influencing others, getting information we need, or securing support (Burleson, Metts, & Kirch, 2000). An example could be when Jeon tries to persuade his roommate to turn down his music because he is studying. In this instance, Jeon is using communication to meet an instrumental need.Relational needs include needs that help us maintain social bonds and interpersonal relationships. Communicating to fill our instrumental needs helps us function on many levels, but communicating for relational needs helps us achieve the social relating that is an essential part of being human. Communication meets our relational needs by giving us a tool through which to develop, maintain, and end relationships.Identity needs include our need to present ourselves to others and be thought of in particular and desired ways. What adjectives would you use to describe yourself? Are you funny, smart, loyal, or quirky? Your answer isn’t just based on who you think you are, since much of how we think of ourselves is based on our communication with other people. Our identity changes as we progress through life, but communication is the primary means of establishing our identity and fulfilling our identity needs.Communication Is a ProcessCommunication can be defined as the process of understanding and sharing meaning (Pearson & Nelson, 2000. When we refer to communication as a process, we imply that it doesn’t have a distinct beginning and end or follow a predetermined sequence of events. It can be difficult to trace the origin of a communication encounter, since communication doesn’t always follow a neat and discernible format, which makes studying communication interactions or phenomena difficult. Any time we pull one part of the process out for study or closer examination, we artificially “freeze” the process in order to examine it, which is not something that is possible when communicating in real life. But sometimes scholars want to isolate a particular stage in the process in order to gain insight by studying, for example, feedback or eye contact. Doing that changes the very process itself, and by the time you have examined a particular stage or component of the process, the entire process may have changed. However, these behavioral snapshots are useful for scholarly interrogation of the communication process, and they can also help us evaluate our own communication practices, troubleshoot a problematic encounter we had, or slow things down to account for various contexts before we engage in communication (Dance & Larson, 1976).Communication Is Guided by Culture and ContextContext is a dynamic component of the communication process. Culture and context also influence how we perceive and define communication. Western culture tends to put more value on senders than receivers and on the content rather the context of a message whereas Eastern cultures tend to communicate with the listener in mind. These cultural values are reflected in our definitions and models of communication. As we will learn in later chapters, cultures vary in terms of having a more individualistic or more collectivistic cultural orientation. The United States is considered an individualistic culture, where emphasis is put on individual expression and success. Japan is considered a collectivistic culture, where emphasis is put on group cohesion and harmony. These are strong cultural values that are embedded in how we learn to communicate. In many collectivistic cultures, there is more emphasis placed on silence and nonverbal context. Whether in the United States, Japan, or another country, people are socialized from birth to communicate in culturally specific ways that vary by context.Communication Is LearnedMost of us are born with the capacity and ability to communicate, but we all communicate differently. This is because communication is learned rather than innate. As we have already seen, communication patterns are relative to the context and culture in which one is communicating. Many cultures have distinct languages consisting of unique systems of symbols. A key principle of communication is that it is symbolic. Communication is symbolic in that the words that make up our language systems do not directly correspond to something in reality. Instead, they stand in for or symbolize something. Odgen and Richards (1923) believe that there is a triangle of meaning with “thought,” “symbol,” and “referent” in relationship.FishPoisson.jpgFigure 1.2.1: fg.1 The french word Poisson means fish, but poison refers to a toxic substance. The fact that communication varies so much among people, contexts, and cultures illustrates the principle that meaning is not inherent in the words we use. For example, let’s say you go to France on vacation and see the word poisson on the menu. Unless you know how to read French, you will not know that the symbol is the same as the English symbol fish. Those two words don’t look the same at all, yet they symbolize the same object. If you went by how the word looks alone, you might think that the French word for fish is more like the English word poison and avoid choosing that for your dinner. Putting a picture of a fish on a menu would definitely help a foreign tourist understand what they are ordering, since the picture is an actual representation of the object rather than an arbitrary symbol for it.All symbolic communication is learned, negotiated, and dynamic. We know that the letters book refer to a bound object with multiple written pages. We also know that the letters truck refer to a vehicle with a bed in the back for hauling things. But if we learned in school that the letters truck referred to a bound object with written pages and book referred to a vehicle with a bed in the back, then that would make just as much sense, because the letters don’t actually refer to the object and the word itself only has the meaning that we assign to it. We will learn more, in the verbal communication chapter, about how language works, but communication is more than the words we use.We are all socialized into different languages, but we also speak different “languages” based on the situation we are in. For example, in some cultures it is considered inappropriate to talk about family or health issues in public, but it wouldn’t be odd to overhear people in a small town grocery store in the United States talking about their children or their upcoming surgery. There are some communication patterns shared by very large numbers of people and some that are particular to a specific relationship–best friends, for example, who have their own inside terminology and expressions that wouldn’t make sense to anyone else. These examples aren’t on the same scale as differing languages, but they still indicate that communication is learned. They also illustrate how rules and norms influence how we communicate. We will discuss rules and norms in communication in later chapters.Communication Has Ethical ImplicationsAnother culturally and situationally relative principle of communication is the fact that communication has ethical implications. Communication ethics deal with the process of negotiating and reflecting on our actions and communication regarding what we believe to be right and wrong. Aristotle, an important Greek philosopher and influencer of communication studies said, “In the arena of human life the honors and rewards fall to those who show their good qualities in action” (Pearson et al., 2006).In communication ethics, we are more concerned with the decisions people make about what is right and wrong than the systems, philosophies, or religions that inform those decisions. Much of ethics is gray area. Although we talk about making decisions in terms of what is right and what is wrong, the choice is rarely that simple. Aristotle goes on to say that we should act “to the right extent, at the right time, with the right motive, and in the right way.”Communication has broad ethical implications. When dealing with communication ethics, it’s difficult to state that something is 100 percent ethical or unethical. I tell my students that we all make choices daily that are more ethical or less ethical, and we may confidently make a decision only later to learn that it wasn’t the most ethical option. In such cases, our ethics and goodwill are tested, since in any given situation multiple options may seem appropriate, but we can only choose one. If, in a situation, we make a decision and we reflect on it and realize we could have made a more ethical choice, does that make us a bad person?While many behaviors can be more easily labeled as ethical or unethical, communication isn’t always as clear. Murdering someone is generally thought of as unethical and illegal, but many instances of hurtful speech, or even what some would consider hate speech, have been protected as free speech. This shows the complicated relationship between protected speech, ethical speech, and the law. In some cases, people see it as their ethical duty to communicate information that they feel is in the public’s best interest. The people behind WikiLeaks, for example, have released thousands of classified documents related to wars, intelligence gathering, and diplomatic communication. WikiLeaks claims that exposing this information keeps politicians and leaders accountable and keeps the public informed, but government officials claim the release of the information should be considered a criminal act because such exposure may threaten national security. Both parties consider the other’s communication unethical and their own communication ethical. Who is right?Communication Influences Your Thinking about Yourself and OthersWe all share a fundamental drive to communicate. As previously stated, communication can be defined as the process of understanding and sharing meaning (Pearson & Nelson, 2000). . You share meaning in what you say and how you say it, both in oral and written forms. If you could not communicate, what would life be like? A series of neverending frustrations? Not being able to ask for what you need, or even to understand the needs of others?Being unable to communicate might even mean losing a part of yourself, for you communicate your selfconcept—your sense of self and awareness of who you are—in many ways. Do you like to write? Do you find it easy to make a phone call to a stranger, or to speak to a room full of people? Do you like to work in teams and groups? Perhaps someone told you that you don’t speak clearly, or your grammar needs improvement. Does that make you more or less likely to want to communicate? For some it may be a positive challenge, while for others it may be discouraging, but in all cases your ability to communicate is central to your selfconcept.Take a look at your clothes. What are the brands you are wearing? What do you think they say about you? Do you feel that certain styles of shoes, jewelry, tattoos, music, or even automobiles express who you are? Part of your selfconcept may be that you express yourself through texting, or through writing longer documents like essays and research papers, or through the way you speak. Those labels and brands that you wear also in some ways communicate with your group or community. They are recognized, and to some degree, are associated with you. Just as your words represent you in writing, how you present yourself with symbols and images influences how others perceive you.On the other side of the coin, your communication skills help you to understand others—not just their words, but also their tone of voice, their nonverbal gestures, or the format of their written documents provide you with clues about who they are and what their values and priorities may be. Your success as a communicator hinges on your ability to actively listen and accurately interpret others’ messages.Communication Influences How You LearnWhen you were an infant, you learned to talk over a period of many months. There was a group of caregivers around you that talked to each other, and sometimes you, and you caught on that you could get something when you used a word correctly. Before you knew it you were speaking in sentences, with words, in a language you learned from your family or those around you. When you got older, you didn’t learn to ride a bike, drive a car, or even text a message on your cell phone in one brief moment. Learning works the same way with the continuous improvement of your communication skills.You learn to speak in public by first having conversations, then by answering questions and expressing your opinions in class, and finally by preparing and delivering a “standup” speech. Similarly, you learn to write by first learning to read, then by writing and learning to think critically. Your speaking and writing are reflections of your thoughts, experience, and education, and part of that combination is your level of experience listening to other speakers, reading documents and styles of writing, and studying formats similar to what you aim to produce. Speaking and writing are both key communication skills that you will use in teams and groups.As you study communication, you may receive suggestions for improvement and clarification from professionals more experienced than yourself. Take their suggestions as challenges to improve, don’t give up when your first speech or first draft does not communicate the message you intend. Stick with it until you get it right. Your success in communicating is a skill that applies to almost every field of work, and it makes a difference in your relationships with others.Remember, luck is simply a combination of preparation and timing. You want to be prepared to communicate well when given the opportunity. Each time you do a good job, your success will bring more success.The Communication ProcessCommunication is a complex process, and it is difficult to determine where or with whom a communication encounter starts and ends. For example, when you finish your best friends’ sentences before they can even get the words out, who is the sender, and who is the receiver? Models of communication simplify the process by providing a visual representation of the various aspects of a communication encounter. Models allow us to see specific concepts and steps within the process of communication, define communication, and apply communication concepts. When you become aware of how communication functions, you can think more deliberately through your communication encounters, which can help you better prepare for future communication and learn from your previous communication. The three models of communication we will discuss are the transmission, interaction, and transaction models.Although the models differ, they all contain some common elements such as participants, messages, encoding, decoding, and channels. In communication models, the participants are the senders and/or receivers of messages in a communication encounter. The message is the verbal or nonverbal content being conveyed from sender to receiver. For example, when you say “Hello!” to your friend, you are sending a message of greeting that will be received by your friend.The internal cognitive processes that allow participants to send, receive, and understand messages are the encoding process and decoding process. Encoding is the process of turning thoughts into communication. As we will learn later, the level of conscious thought that goes into encoding messages varies. Decoding is the process of turning communication into thoughts. For example, you may realize you’re hungry and encode the following message to send to your roommate: “I’m hungry. Do you want to get pizza tonight?” As your roommate receives the message, he decodes what you are expressing to him and turns it back into thoughts in order to make meaning out of it. Of course, we don’t just communicate verbally—we have various options, or channels for communication. Encoded messages are sent through a channel, or a sensory route on which a message travels, to the receiver for decoding. While communication can be sent and received using any sensory route (sight, smell, touch, taste, or sound), most communication occurs through visual (sight) and/or auditory (sound) channels. If your roommate has headphones on and is engrossed in a video game, you may need to get his attention by waving your hands before you can ask him about dinner.Linear Model of CommunicationThe linear model of communication describes communication as a linear, oneway process in which a sender intentionally transmits a message to a receiver (Ellis & McClintock, 1990). This model focuses on the sender and message within a communication encounter. Although the receiver is included in the model, this role is viewed as more of a target or end point rather than part of an ongoing process. We are left to presume that the receiver either successfully receives and understands the message or does not. The scholars who designed this model extended on a linear model proposed by Aristotle centuries before that included a speaker, message, and hearer. They were also influenced by the advent and spread of new communication technologies of the time such as telegraphy and radio, and you can probably see these technical influences within the model (Shannon & Weaver, 1949). Think of how a radio message is sent from a person in the radio studio to you listening in your car. The sender is the radio announcer who encodes a verbal message that is transmitted by a radio tower through electromagnetic waves (the channel) and eventually reaches your (the receiver’s) ears via an antenna and speakers in order to be decoded. The radio announcer doesn’t really know if you receive his or her message or not, but if the equipment is working and the channel is free of static, then there is a good chance that the message was successfully received.Linearmodle1scaled.jpgFigure 1.2.2: This graph illustrates the linear model of communication.Although the linear model may seem simple or even underdeveloped to us today, the creation of this model allowed scholars to examine the communication process in new ways, which eventually led to more complex models and theories of communication that we will discuss more later. This model is not quite rich enough to capture dynamic facetoface interactions, but there are instances in which communication is oneway and linear, especially computermediated communication (CMC). CMC is integrated into many aspects of our lives now and has opened up new ways of communicating and brought some new challenges. Think of text messaging for example. The linear model of communication is well suited for describing the act of text messaging since the sender isn’t sure that the meaning was effectively conveyed or that the message was received at all.Interactional Model of CommunicationThe interactional model of communication describes communication as a process in which participants alternate positions as sender and receiver and generate meaning by sending messages and receiving feedback within physical and psychological contexts (Schramm et al., 1997). Rather than illustrating communication as a linear, one way process, the interaction model incorporates feedback, which makes communication a more interactive, two way process. Feedback includes messages sent in response to other messages. For example, your instructor may respond to a point you raise during class discussion or you may point to the sofa when your roommate asks you where the remote control is. The inclusion of a feedback loop also leads to a more complex understanding of the roles of participants in a communication encounter. Rather than having one sender, one message, and one receiver, this model has two senderreceivers who exchange messages. Each participant alternates roles as sender and receiver in order to keep a communication encounter going. Although this seems like a perceptible and deliberate process, we alternate between the roles of sender and receiver very quickly and often without conscious thought.Interactionmodlenew.jpgFigure 1.2.3: This graph illustrates the interactional model of communication.The interactional model is focused on both the message and interaction. While the linear model focused on transmitting a message, the interactional model is more concerned with the communication loop itself. Feedback and context help make the interactional model a more accurate illustration of the typical communication process, and is a powerful tool that helps us understand communication encounters.Transactional Model of CommunicationAs the study of communication progressed, models expanded to account for more of the communication process. Many scholars view communication as more than a process that is used to carry on conversations and convey meaning. We don’t send messages like computers, and we don’t neatly alternate between the roles of sender and receiver as an interaction unfolds. We also can’t consciously decide to stop communicating, because communication is more than sending and receiving messages. The transactional model differs from the linear and interactional models in significant ways, including the conceptualization of communication, the role of sender and receiver, and the role of context (Barnlund, 1970).To review, each model incorporates a different understanding of what communication is and what communication does. The linear model views communication as a thing, like an information packet, that is sent from one place to another. From this view, communication is defined as sending and receiving messages. The interactional model views communication as an interaction in which a message is sent and then followed by a reaction (feedback), which is then followed by another reaction, and so on. From this view, communication is defined as producing conversations and interactions within physical and psychological contexts. The transactional model views communication as integrated into our social realities in such a way that it helps us not only understand them but also create and change them.The transactional model of communication describes communication as a process in which communicators generate social realities within social, relational, and cultural contexts. In this model, we don’t just communicate to exchange messages; we communicate to create relationships, form intercultural alliances, shape our selfconcepts, and engage with others in dialogue to create communities. In short, we don’t communicate about our realities; communication helps to construct our realities.The roles of sender and receiver in the transactional model of communication differ significantly from the other models. Instead of labeling participants as senders and receivers, the people in a communication encounter are referred to as communicators. Unlike the interactional model, which suggests that participants alternate positions as sender and receiver, the transactional model suggests that we are simultaneously senders and receivers. For example, on a first date, as you send verbal messages about your interests and background, your date reacts nonverbally. You don’t wait until you are done sending your verbal message to start receiving and decoding the nonverbal messages of your date. Instead, you are simultaneously sending your verbal message and receiving your date’s nonverbal messages. This is an important addition to the model because it allows us to understand how we are able to adapt our communication—for example, a verbal message—in the middle of sending it based on the communication we are simultaneously receiving from our communication partner.TRANSACTIONAL1.jpgFigure 1.2.4: This Graph illustrates the transaction model of communication.The transactional model also includes a more complex understanding of context. The interaction model portrays context as physical and psychological influences that enhance or impede communication. While these contexts are important, they focus on message transmission and reception. Since the transaction model of communication views communication as a force that shapes our realities before and after specific interactions occur, it must account for contextual influences outside of a single interaction. To do this, the transactional model considers how social, relational, cultural, and physical contexts frame and influence our communication encounters.Social context refers to the stated rules or unstated norms that guide communication. As we are socialized into our various communities, we learn rules and implicitly pick up on norms for communicating. Some common rules that influence social contexts include don’t lie to people, don’t interrupt people, don’t pass people in line, greet people when they greet you, thank people when they pay you a compliment, and so on. Parents and teachers often explicitly convey these rules to their children or students. Rules may be stated over and over, and there may be punishment for not following them. Norms are social conventions that we pick up on through observation, practice, and trial and error. We may not even know we are breaking a social norm until we notice people looking at us strangely or someone corrects or teases us. For example, as a new employee you may over or underdress for the company’s holiday party because you don’t know the norm for formality. Although there probably isn’t a stated rule about how to dress at the holiday party, you will notice your error without someone having to point it out, and you will likely not deviate from the norm again in order to save yourself any potential embarrassment. Even though breaking social norms doesn’t result in the formal punishment that might be a consequence of breaking a social rule, the social awkwardness we feel when we violate social norms is usually enough to teach us that these norms are powerful even though they aren’t made explicit like rules. Norms even have the power to override social rules in some situations. To go back to the examples of common social rules mentioned before, we may break the rule about not lying if the lie is meant to save someone from feeling hurt. We often interrupt close friends when we’re having an exciting conversation, but we wouldn’t be as likely to interrupt a professor while they are lecturing. Since norms and rules vary among people and cultures, relational and cultural contexts are also included in the transaction model in order to help us understand the multiple contexts that influence our communication.Relational context includes the previous interpersonal history and type of relationship we have with a person. We communicate differently with someone we just met versus someone we’ve known for a long time. Initial interactions with people tend to be more highly scripted and governed by established norms and rules, but when we have an established relational context, we may be able to bend or break social norms and rules more easily. For example, you would likely follow social norms of politeness and attentiveness and might spend the whole day cleaning the house for the first time you invite your new neighbors to visit. Once the neighbors are in your house, you may also make them the center of your attention during their visit. If you end up becoming friends with your neighbors and establishing a relational context, you might not think as much about having everything cleaned and prepared or even giving them your whole attention during later visits. Since communication norms and rules also vary based on the type of relationship people have, relationship type is also included in relational context. For example, there are certain communication rules and norms that apply to a supervisorsupervisee relationship that don’t apply to a brothersister relationship and vice versa. Just as social norms and relational history influence how we communicate, so does culture.Cultural context includes various aspects of identities such as race, gender, nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation, class, and ability. We will learn more about these identities in other chapters, but for now it is important for us to understand that whether we are aware of it or not, we all have multiple cultural identities that influence our communication. Some people, especially those with identities that have been historically marginalized, are regularly aware of how their cultural identities influence their communication and influence how others communicate with them. Conversely, people with identities that are dominant or in the majority may rarely, if ever, think about the role their cultural identities play in their communication. When cultural context comes to the forefront of a communication encounter, it can be difficult to manage. Since intercultural communication creates uncertainty, it can deter people from communicating across cultures or lead people to view intercultural communication as negative. But if you avoid communicating across cultural identities, you will likely not get more comfortable or competent as a communicator. “Difference,” isn’t a bad thing. In fact, intercultural communication has the potential to enrich various aspects of our lives. In order to communicate well within various cultural contexts, it is important to keep an open mind and avoid making assumptions about others’ cultural identities. While you may be able to identify some aspects of the cultural context within a communication encounter, there may also be cultural influences that you can’t see. A competent communicator shouldn’t assume to know all the cultural contexts a person brings to an encounter, since not all cultural identities are visible. As with the other contexts, it requires skill to adapt to shifting contexts, and the best way to develop these skills is through practice and reflection.Key Vocabularyphysical needsrelational needscommunication ethicsinstrumental needsidentity needsselfconceptparticipantsmessageencodingdecodingchannellinear communicationinteractional communicationtransactional communicationsocial contextrelational contextcultural context.Purposive CommunicationCommunication processes. principles, and ethicsCommunication is a very interesting topic to be discussed, previously those confusions along with the term had finally answered, and another figure and body of knowledge were added to the memory bank such terms were creatively elaborated like the verbal communication, nonverbal communication, the types of communication such as intrapersonal, interpersonal, extended, organizational, intercultural, and the purpose and style of communication. In a nutshell, the terms are crucial to restate and to know the function in the field of communication.You learned about the types of communication mode, context and purpose, and style. In this lesson, you will review the nature of the communication process and some important communication models. Why is it important that you know the communication models? You will realize their importance because they will help you understand how a communication process works.A model is often abstract. It is a representation of a realworld phenomenon applied to different forms. The interplay of variables in the model is represented graphically. Try to assess later what comprises the communication models and what variables are common to each of them.There are many conceptual models for human communication but you will be exposed to only four. These are Aristotle’s model, Laswell’s model, ShannonWeaver’s model; and David Berlo’s Model of CommunicationAristotle’s Communication ModelAristotle, a great philosopher initiative the earliest mass communication model called “Aristotle’s Model of Communication”. He proposed a model before 300 B.C who found the importance of the audience role in the communication chain in his communication model. This model is more focused on public speaking than interpersonal communication.Aristotle Model of Communication is formed with 5 basic elements(i) Speaker, (ii) Speech, (iii) Occasion, (iv) Audience and (v) Effect.Aristotle advises speakers to build speech for different audiences at a different time (occasion) and for different effects.Note that the speaker variable here is very important. Without the speaker, there will be no speech to be produced. Depending on the profile of the speaker adjusts his or her speech. Some considerations for the audience demographics are age, sex, background, culture, race, religion, gender, social and economic status, and political orientation or inclination, among others. Even beliefs, views, and attitudes also play an important role when talking about audience consideration since oftentimes, the audience brings these with them when they decode the message in any given situation.In 1948, Harold Dwight Laswell describes communication as being focused on the following W’s: who says what in which channel to home and with what effect as seen in the model below:The whole process of communication begins with the communicator ( who ) sending out the message ( what ) using a medium( in which channel ) for a receiver ( to whom) experiencing an effect afterward. The process may be analyzed through the content sent, the medium used, as well as the effect on the rose plant of the message.While this model is similar to Aristotle’s in the sense that both are linear and have the same components, Laswell also differs in that there are five variables involved with the addition of two: medium and effect.Claude Elwood Shannon and Warren Weaver’s model of communication was introduced in 1949, a year after Laswell’s for Bell Laboratories.This model is specially designed to develop effective communication between the sender and the receiver. Also, they find factors which affecting the communication process called “Noise”. At first, the model was developed to improve the Technical communication. Later it’s widely applied in the field of Communication.The model deals with various concepts like Information source, transmitter, Noise, channel, message, receiver, channel, information destination, encode, and decode.David Kenneth Berlo (1929 — February 23, 1996) was an American communications theorist. He taught at Michigan State University and later served as president of Illinois State University. He proposed the:BERLO’S COMMUNICATION MODELBerlo’s SMCR Model of Communication represents the process of communication in its simplest form. The acronym SMCR stands for Sender, Message, Channel, and Receiver. Berlo’s SMCR Model of Communication describes the different components that form the basic process of communication. Because this communication tool also emphasise the coding and decoding of the message, it can be used for more efficient communication. (Janse, 2019)Berlo’s model follows the SMCR model. This model is not specific to any particular communication. Berlo’s model includes a number of factors under each of the elements:Communication skills — It is the skill of the individual to communicate. For example, the ability to read, write, speak, listen, etc.Attitudes — This includes attitudes towards the audience, subject, and towards oneself. For example, for the student, the attitude is to learn more and for teachers, it is to help teach.Knowledge– Communicating also means that the person needs to be knowledgeable about the subject or topic. For e.g. a teacher needs to know about the subject in detail that he or she teaches so that they can communicate properly such that the students understand here.Note: It refers, not to the general knowledge, but to the knowledge of the subject that the person is communicating and their familiarity with it.Social system — The social system includes the various aspects of society like values, beliefs, culture, religion, and a general understanding of society. It is where the communication takes place.For example, classrooms differ from country to country just like people’s behaviors and how they communicate, etc.Note: We can communicate only to the extent that the social system allows. When we communicate, we take the social system into account.Culture: The culture of a particular society also comes under the social system.According to this model, people can communicate only if the above requirements are met in the proper or adequate proportion.Encoder: The sender of the message, from where the message originates, is referred to as the encoder. So the source encodes the message here.MessageContent — The body of a message, from the beginning to the end, comprises its content. For example, whatever the class teacher teaches in the class, from beginning to end, is the content of the message.Elements — It includes various things like language, gestures, body language, etc. They constitute all the elements of a particular message. Any content is accompanied by some elements.Treatment — It refers to the packing of the message and the way in which the message is conveyed or the way in which it is passed on or delivered.Note: When there is too much treatment, communication will not go smoothly.Structure– The structure of the message refers to how it is arranged; the way people structure the message into various parts.Note: The message is the same, but if the structure is not properly arranged then the receiver will not understand the message.Code– The code of the message refers to the means through which it is sent and in what form. It could be, for example, language, body language, gestures, music, etc. Even culture is a code. Through this, people give and receive messages and communication takes place.Note: Only when the code is clear, the message will be clear. The wrong usage may lead to misinterpretation.Channel– It refers to the five sense organs. The following are the five senses:§ Hearing§ Seeing§ Touching§ Smelling§ TastingCommunication occurs through one or more of these channels.Hearing: The use of ears to receive the message. For example, orally transmitted messages, interpersonal communication, etc.Seeing: Visual channels, for example, Watching television so the message is conveyed through the scene/film.Touching: The sense of touch can be used as a channel to communicate. For example, we touch, buy food, hugging our loved ones, etc.Smelling: Smell also can be a channel to communicate. For example, perfumes, food, fragrances, etc. Charred smell communicates something is burning. People can deduct which food is being cooked by its smell etc.Tasting: The tongue is a muscular organ used in the act of eating and tasting food. For example, while food is being shared, communication can happen regarding its taste.Note: Despite not mentioning a medium, we need to assume that as communication is taking place, channels can be any of the 5 senses or combination.Decoder: The person who receives the message and decodes it is referred to a decoder.Receiver: The receiver needs to think about all the contents and elements of the source, so as to communicate/responds to the sender effectively.;Berlo’s model believes that for effective communication to take place, the source and the receiver need to be on the same level. Only then communication will happen or take place properly. Hence, the source and the receiver should be similar.For example, if the communication skill of the source is good, then the receiver should have equally good listening skills.It cannot be said that the receiver does not receive the whole message because even though he may receive it, but may not be able to interpret its meaning. For effective communication, the source and the receiver need to be on the same level.Note: Selfimage differs from person to person. For communication, the person should consider the receiver, speak accordingly, and give them what they need.Criticism of Berlo’s SMCR model of communication:1. There is a lack of feedback. The effects are practically unknown.2. It does not mention the barriers to communication.3. There is no room for noise.4. It is a rather complex model.5. It is a linear model of communication.6. It requires people to be on the same level for effective communication to happen. However, that rarely happens in everyday life.7. The main drawback of the model is that it omits the usage of sixth sense as a channel of communication, which is an asset to human beings (thinking, understanding, analyzing, etc.)GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATIONSince communication is a two — way process, it is important that you know the principles to be observed to make it effective. For both oral and written communication, you should be able to apply the following principles:1. Know your purpose in communicating.2. Know your audience.3. Know your topic.4. Adjust your speech or writing to the context of the situation.5. Work on the feedback given to you.PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE ORAL COMMUNICATION1. Be clear about your purpose. You should know by heart your objective in communicating.2. Be complete with the message you deliver. Make sure that your claims are supported by facts and essential information.3. Be concise. You do not need to be verbose or were they with your statements. Brevity in speech is a must.4. Be natural with your delivery. Punctuate important words with appropriate gestures and movements. Exude a certain degree of confidence if you do not feel confident enough.5. Be specific and timely with your feedback. Inputs are most helpful when provided on time.7 C’S PRINCIPLE OF EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION1. Be clear2. Be concise3. Be concrete4. Be correct5. Be coherent6. Be complete7. Be courteousETHICS OF COMMUNICATIONBe guided by the following to achieve ethical communication:1. Establish an effective value system that will pave the way for the development of your integrity as a person. One’s behavior and decision making style affect the intern in the operations of an organization.2. Provide complete and accurate information. Whether it is needed or not the data should always be contextualized correctly.3. Disclose vital information adequately and appropriately. Never conceal or hide information that is necessary for purposes of transparency.WHAT gs COMMUNICATION? Communication is the process ofpeople reacting to the variousattitudes and behaviors of otherindividuals. It allows us to receive, transmit, andretain messages and information.TYPES OF COMMUNICAT!ONverbalnonVerbalVerbalIntrapersonal1.Communication2. InterpersonalCommunication3. PublicCommunication4. MassCommunicationonVerbalSilenceBody LanguageFacial ExpressionParalanguageTouchSpace and DistanceClothes and Personal AppearanceSymbolsFORMAL COMMUNICATIONIt involves the use of public speaking or masscommunication, a combination of both verbaland nonverbal messages.INFORMAL COMMUNICAT!ONIt involves interpersonal and smallgroup communication where people canbe at ease and be more comfortable.FUNCTIONS OFCOMMUNICATIONInforming and conveying the messagePersuading ideas, opinions, and suggestionsIntegrating to achieve the goalsCreating and establishing relationshipsHelping in decision makingReducing misunderstandingCHAPTER 1COMMUNICATION PROCESSES,PRINCIPLES AND ETHICSLESSON 1:THE COMMUNICATION PROCESSThe Nature of Communication Communication is derived from the Latin word “common” which means,“belonging to many” and “communico” means to confer with others. It is the mutual exchange of information, ideas, and understanding by any effective means. In other words, communication is a process by which people send messages or exchange ideas or thoughts with one another in a verbal or nonverbal manner. Communication is the interaction of words from a society and thus gives pleasure and an increased understanding of life. ELEMENTS OF COMMUNICATION1. SENDER (encoder) The sender also known as the encoder decides on the message to be sent and the best/most effective way that it can be sent. It is the sender’s job to CONCEPTUALIZE (form a concept of idea).2. MEDIUM (message) The medium is the immediate form which a message takes. For example, a message may be communicated in the form of a letter, an email or face to face in the form of a speech Medium is also known as theMESSAGE.3. CHANNEL The channel is responsible for the delivery of the chosenmessage form.For example: post office, internet, television and radio4. RECEIVER (decoder/listener) The receiver or the decoder is responsible for extracting/decoding meaningfrom the message. The receiver is also responsible for providing feedback to the sender. It is his/her job to INTERPRET.5. FEEDBACK (response) This is important as it determines whether or not the decoder grasped the intended meaning and whether the communication was successful6. CONTEXT The context of any communication act is the environment surrounding it. It is also known as the setting of the communication.7. NOISE (also called interference) This is the factor that inhibitsthe conveyance of a message. Noise is anything that interferes with communication.Physical noise is interference that is external to both speaker and listener; it hampers the physical transmission of the signal or message.  Examples of physical noise: Loud party at the neighbors while you’re trying to record. Irritating hum of your computer, air conditioner, or electric fan. Physiological noise is created by barriers within the sender or receiver. Examples of physiological noise on the encoder’s side are: articulation problems, mumbling, talking too fast, talking too slow, forgetting topause, and forgetting to breathe. An example of physiological noise on the listener’s side: hearing problems. Maybe thelistener can’t hear high tones as clearly as they used to. For some, low tones are the problem. Their difficulty in literally hearing words and sounds becomes physiological noise.Psychological noise is mental interference in the speaker or listener.Wandering thoughts, preconceived ideas, and sarcasm can be a kind of psychological noise.Semantic noise is interference created when the speaker and listener have different meaning systems.The communication process is dynamic, continuous, irreversible, and contextual. It is not possible to participate in any element of the process without acknowledging the existence and functioning of the other elements.LESSON 2:PRINCIPLES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF COMMUNICATION1. Communication is SchematadrivenIt begins with your self, you begin with what you have already stocked in your brain or with what you have already known or understood about the subject matter of the communicative act. Transmitted messages become understandable or meaningful because of your background knowledge about the messages.2. Communication is an Interpretive ActThe only person who knows the exact or full meaning of the messagetransmitted is the sender or speaker.Being the creator or source of the ideas, he has the absolute knowledge about his message.It was called interpretive act because the role of the receiver or the listener is just to interpret, infer, or guess the meaning of things appealing to his sense of hearing.3. Communication does not guarantee a direct or automatic link between two mindsThis form of knowledge becomes meaningful only to others when you initiate communication with them.4. Communication is active, powerful, or forcefulCommunication is said to be active because messages have varied effects on all participants in any communicative event. It engages speakers and listeners inaction of giving and receiving information.Communication is powerful and forceful for it elicits different meanings or reactions; these messages are prone to changes. Subjected to the changeable and continued existence of the world, communication is dynamic ( a process or system characterized by constant change) as life that goes onand on like a river. nothing remains permanent or fixed in the world of communication. 5. Communication is symbolicSymbols, signs, or marks like letters, words, sentences, graphs, pictures, and other concrete objects representor stand for ideas that you intend to convey verbally.For nonverbal communication, you resort bodily actions (gestures, eye movements, posture, facial expressions) voice quality, space and time elements to stand for the ideas you want to express.6. Communication always results in somethingIt refers to two or more persons participate in any communicative act. The first expresses or sends a message; the second responds or reacts to the message.7. Communication is irreversibleYou are free to talk to about anything under the sun. but once you utter something, the things you have said remain as it is susceptible to different interpretations or meanings.8. Communication is contextualAn exchange of views, ideas, or feelings doesn't only involve the sender and receiver, but also other aspects of the communication setting like type, place, topic, occasion, purpose, and manner of communication.9. Communication is developmental or progressiveTo communicate ideas to go throughthe different stages of language learning that begins from birth to elementary, high school and college levels. it is not a onetime learning towards communicative competence.10. Communication is a progressSeveral stages of communication take place when people exchange orshare ideas with one another. Each stage involves elements with different functions.11. Communication is ethicalAny communication event is expected to apply rules, moral values, and beliefs agreed upon by societal members. Guided by these standards determined by the culturalgroup you belong to, your community communication becomesethical, good or desirable.12. Communication is influenced by mediaand technologyNow, you are in the era of knowledge explosion or modern technology. This period is characterized by an instant global exchange of knowledge, services and technology. using modern electronic communication devices, an exchange of ideas occurs just in seconds or minutes regardless of the distance between or among the participants. With the speedy turn out of varied modern media and devices of communication like the email, cellphone, webcam, internet and other computerrun gadgets find interaction with anyone in any corner of the world easily and quickly.LESSON 3:COMMUNICATION CUES: VERBAL AND NONVERBAL LANGUAGE Verbal LanguageVerbal language consists of symbolssuch as letters, words, and other marks that you need to subject to language or grammar rules for a coherent or organized means of understanding or expressing ideas. this verbal or spoken language becomes a written language once you put on paper or any surface the marks or prints symbolizing or representing the ideas you intend to convey or have spoken to others.Verbal symbols refer to the use of speaker language (Antonio, et.al., p. 30) Nonverbal LanguageAs with other aspects of communication, norms for nonverbal communication vary from country to country and also among cultures within a particular country. Some nonverbal communication behaviors appear to be somewhat innate because they are universally recognized. Such universal signals are the “eyebrow flash” of recognition when we see someone we know and the “open hand” and the “palm up” gestures that signals aperson would like something or needs help (Martin & Nakayama, 2010). Smiling is also a universal nonverbal behavior, but the triggersthat lead a person to smile vary fromculture to culture. The expansion of media, particularly from the United States and other Western countries around the world, is leading to more nonverbal similarities among cultures, but the biggest cultural difference in nonverbal communication occur within the categories of eye contact, touch, and personal space (Pease & Pease, 2004). Nonverbal communication like other forms of communication is influenced by context and varies among individuals within a particular cultural group as well.The idea you want to convey through this nonverbal communication are symbolized or represented, not by words but by the following nonverbal nonverbal language symbols:1. Body MovementsAlso known as body kinetics.Big and small movements of your body like gestures, facial expressions, posture, and eye behavior expresses meanings.Kinesics derived from the Greek term “kinesis” meaning “motion” which refers to the study of body movements.2. ParalanguageRefers to the ways of saying something These are extra sounds that go withyour spoken words and a study of these special sounds accompanying your words iscalled Paralinguistic.Examples of paralanguage are the following:a) Speaking voice produced by your voice’s❏highness and lowness (Pitch)❏loudness or softness (Volume)❏speediness and slowness (Duration/Rate)❏rising and falling (Intonation)❏Pleasing or unpleasing sound  shrillnes, huskiness, breathiness, mellowness, etc.(Quality)b) Vocalization or voice’s special usage like crying, giggling, moaning, growling, yawning, sighing and groaning.c) vocal pauses or boosters like ash...ugh...umm...oh...shh...oops...many others.3. TimeThere are two kinds of people based on time; punctual and lateYour willingness, hesitance, or hatred to wait for a long time speaksof your trait of patience or impatience. Likewise, this reflects your manner of valuing your relationship with the object of your waiting. Your trait of optimism is also proven by your fondness of talking about your goals, dreams, orplans for the future. Chronemics is the term that refers to your act of studying the impact or effect of timeon your behavior.4. ProxemicsIt concerns the way a person uses the space around him as well as the distance where he stands. a. Intimate distanceIn this situation, people are indirect contact with each other or are in no more than 18 inches apart as in mother and child.b. Personal distancePeople may stay anywhere from 18 inches to 4 feet from each other as in casual and personal conversations.This distance is close enoughto see each other’s reactions but fair enough not to encroach on the person’s intimate distance.c. Social distanceWhen talking to persons unknown to the speaker, he must keep a distance of 4 to 12 feet. Mostly done in impersonal business and social gatherings or interviews which is expectedto be more formal.d. Public distanceIt is the distance of more than 12 feet typically used inpublic speaking. There is a need for the speaker to speak loudly and to use exaggerated gestures for theaudience to understand whathe is trying to convey. Furthermore, there is a necessity for the availability of gadgets to aid in the sound projection.Haptics is the term used to refer to your acts of studying the effects of your touch on people5. Physical Appearance and Object LanguageMeanings in this kind of nonverbal language, are symbolized or represented by dressing styles, bodytypes, body appearances like size or shape, architectural designs or structures, art objects, graphic materials, lightning effects, aromaticor smelly objects, and other environmental factors that influence or affect any communicative event. CHAPTER 1: COMMUNICATION PROCESSES, PRINCIPLES AND ETHICSCOMMUNICATION Derived from the Latin words con which means “with”, munus which means “a business”,communis which means “common” and communico which means “to confer”. It is therefore defined as the process of accomplishing a goal According to Sanchez (2017), effective communication is the most critical component of totalquality management. described as the transfer of information, thoughts or ideas to create a shared understandingbetween a sender and a receiver. It is a dynamic, twoway process Therefore, communication is the process of transferring information from one point to anotherwhere the receiverTYPES OF COMMUNICATION1. Verbal Communication  uses words or symbols. It is done through speaking or writing.*Spoken communication can be done through facetoface interaction, through mobiles orcomputers, public speaking, etc.*Written communication can be written, digitized or printed.*Verbal communication is focused on how messages are portrayed.Factors that affect verbal communication:1. Tone of voice2. Use of descriptive words3. Emphasis on certain phrases4. Volume of voice* According to Mehrabian (2017), 55% of information gathered when people are speaking to eachother in person is determined through body language, 38% of the information relayed in aconversation through tone of voice, and only 7% of the words that are spoken are used tounderstand what is being said.*In verbal communication, meanings are also taken from nonverbal forms and are better known asnonverbal cues.*Nonverbal cues  make the message clearer and give the listener an indication in what way theinformation should be received.*These are similar to nonverbal type of communication; but these are used to accompany verbalcommunication.Examples of Nonverbal Cues:1. Intonation2. Facial expressions3. Pause4. Hand gestures5. Use of visuals6. Body movement7. Eye contact2. Nonverbal Communication  sending of message using methods other than spoken language. Itmay be intentional or unintentional.According to Tidwell (2016) there are two kinds of nonverbal communication:1. Nonverbal messages produced by the body2. Nonverbal messages produced by the broad setting such as time, space and silenceExamples of nonverbal communication:touch glance eye contact vocal nuance proximityfacial expressions gestures volume pause (silence) intonationdress posture smell context formality*In highcontext cultures, the manner of saying the word is more important than the word itself.Highcontext cultures  those who communicate in ways that are implicit and rely heavily on context.These are the collectivistic in nature.Lowcontext cultures  those who communicate in ways that are explicit. These are theindividualistic in nature.Uses of nonverbal communication:1. Used to repeat the verbal message.2. Often used to accent a verbal message.3. Often complements the verbal message but may also contradict.4. Regulate interactions.5. May substitute for the verbal message, especially if it is blocked by noise or interruption.ELEMENTS OF THE COMMUNICATION PROCESS1. Sender  a person, group or organization who initiates communication. Also called asencoder, source, speaker, writer or communicator. The sender is responsible for the success ofthe communication. The sender’s experiences, attitudes, knowledge, skills, perceptions, andculture influence the message.2. Message  is the element transmitted in the communication process. The message should becoded by the sender in a way that it will be easily understood by the receiver.3. Channel  pathway or medium through which the message travels to reach its destination. Itmay be oral, written or visual. Each kind of channel has a specific use depending on themessage.Examples: Facetoface, through writing letters, social media, mobile phone call, etc4. Noise  a form of distortion, barrier or obstacle that occurs in any of the phases of the oralcommunication process. It may be visual, aural, physical or psychological in forms.Examples: inappropriate channel, incorrect grammar, inflammatory words, jargon,5. Receiver  the person who receives, understands, analyzes and interprets the message. Alsocalled as decoder, reader or listener. The receiver’s experiences, attitudes, knowledge, skills,perceptions, and culture influence the interpretation of the message. Successful communicationtakes place when the receiver correctly interprets the sender’s message. In giving the receiver’sresponse, the receiver then becomes the sender.6. Feedback  the receiver’s response that provides information to the sender. It shows whetherthe receiver understood the message or not. According to Bovee and Thill (1992), even the lackof response, is in a sense, a form of response. It is a very important element of the processbecause it makes the communication dynamic, twoway interactive event.7. Adjustment  it is done if the message is not clearly understood by the receiver.ASPECTS OF COMMUNICATIONThe importance of communication is related to various aspects.1. Communication is integrated in all parts of our lives.We communicate every minute and every second of our lives. And as we go through lifeeveryday, we use communication in all places we go to, in different parts of our lives.A. Academics According to researches, students who are good in writing and speaking performbetter not only in the English class, but also in other learning areas.B. Professional Employees who are better in communicating have the higher chance of gettinghired.C. Personal Having a vocabulary to name the communication phenomena in our livesincreases our ability to alter consciously our communication in order to achieveour goals and avoid miscommunication.D. Civic Civic engagement refers to working to make a difference in our communities byimproving the quality of life of community members.2. Communication meets needsCommunication is more than the transmission of information. We also communicate in order tosurvive our daytoday activities.A. Physical Needs  keep our brain and body functioningB. Instrumental Needs  instructing people, giving directionsC. Relational Needs  initiate, maintain or end a relationshipD. Identity Needs  people present their image through the way they communicate3. Communication is guided by culture and contextCulture  as defined by O’Neil (2006), it is the full range of learned human behavior patterns. Itincludes knowledge, belief, art, law, morals, customs, etc.Context  the circumstances that form the setting for an eventCulture and context influence how we deliver and how we understand messages.4. Communication is learned.The need to communicate and the ability to learn a language is innate. However, our manner ofcommunication varies from person to person. This is because communication is learned rather thaninnate.The Case of the Feral Children  children who were raised by animals; children who grew upisolated from human contact5. Communication has ethical implications.Communication ethics deals with reflecting and negotiating our actions based on what webelieve to be right or wrong.The Communication Process ModelISSUES IN COMMUNICATION1. Content  refers to the information and experiences that are provided to the receiver of thecommunication process.* The message must be presented in a language that makes a grammatical sense.* Words have different meanings and may be used or interpreted differently.* Therefore, content should be tailored or edited for the public to ensure effective communication.2. Process  refers to the way the message is presented or delivered.*The nonverbal forms that we use often cause messages to be misunderstood as we tend tobelieve what we see more than what we hear.*Therefore, we should be mindful of the nonverbal cues that accompany our verbalcommunication.3. Context  refers to the situation or environment in which your message is delivered.* If the sender is unaware of a specific context, the sender might say improper words or messages.* If the receiver is unaware of the context, the message might be interpreted incorrectly.* Therefore, it is important to assert and understand the context before saying something.“Context Clues”Example:1. If the weather is cold, I can watch movies all day.Context: what the speaker can do if the weather is coldWATCH (VERB)2. The Rolex watch of my uncle is expensive.Context: the expensive watch of the speaker’s uncleWATCH (NOUN)PRINCIPLES IN COMMUNICATIONPrinciples are guidelines we follow when we say or do something.1. Principle of Clarity  messages should be worded clearly. Messages should not be ambiguous orcan be interpreted in different ways. It should be straightforward so the receiver will easilyunderstand what the speaker is saying. It is always the responsibility of the sender to make themessage clear so that the receiver will understand the message correctly.2. Principle of Attention  the receiver’s attention should be drawn to the message to make thecommunication effective. In order to achieve successful communication, the receiver should belistening to the sender to understand the message. There are many distractor that may cause thereceiver to lose the focus on the message. Avoid any circumstances that may lead to the loss ofattention of the receiver.3. Principle of Feedback  there should be a feedback in communication in order for the sender toknow whether the message was clearly understood by the receiver. The feedback will also indicatewhether the sender needs to make adjustments on the message for the receiver to understand themessage.4. Principle of Informality  in academic or business setting, the language used is mainly formal.However, in circumstances where formal language fail to meet its goal, which is to make receiver/sunderstand the message, the sender should be flexible in switching to informal language to codethe message clearer. Informal communication is as important as formal communication.5. Principle of Consistency  communication should always be consistent with the policies, plans,programs and objectives of the organization and not in conflict with them. If leaders are notfollowing the rules, the subordinates will be confused.6. Principle of Timeliness  communication should be done in real time. It helps transactions to bedone fast.7. Principles of Adequacy  when communicating, information should be adequate and complete.Incomplete information may cause delay and confusion.COMMUNICATION ETHICSIt deals with the behavior of an individual or a group which is governed by their morals and in turnaffects communication.The National Communication Association (NCA) formulated the Credo for Ethical Communicationin November 1999. It reminds us that ethical communication is relevant across contexts and appliesto every channel of communication.1. Advocate truthfulness, accuracy, honesty and reason as essential to the integrity ofcommunication.2. Endorse freedom of expression, diversity of perspective, and tolerance of dissent to achieve theinformed and responsible decision making fundamental to a civil society.3. Strive to understand and respect other communicators before evaluating and responding to theirmessages.4. Promote access to communication resources and opportunities as necessary to fulfill humanpotential and contribute to the wellbeing of families, communities, and society.5. Promote communication climates of caring and mutual understanding that respect the uniqueneeds and characteristics of individual communicators.6. Condemn communication that degrades individuals and humanity through distortion,intimidation, coercion, and violence, and through the expression of intolerance and hatred.7. Commit to the courageous expression of personal convictions in pursuit of fairness and justice.8. Advocate sharing information, opinions and feelings when facing significant choices while alsorespecting privacy and confidentiality.9. Accept responsibility for the short and longterm consequences for our own communication andexpect the same of others.Ethics Resource Center (Free Word Press, 2017)Simple ThreePart Guide for Ethical Business Communication1. Be honest.2. Be respectful.3. Show sensitivity to cultural differences.Communication Ethics in the Academic Context1. Avoid plagiarism.The Instrument of Judicial Governance defines plagiarism as “the intentional representation ofanother person’s words, thoughts or ideas as one’s own.”2. Data gathered from participants for a research or study should be kept confidential at all times,unless given the permission of the participant.3. Students should always show respect to authorities in school.4. Transactions or communication plans should follow a protocol for their acceptance or approval.5. Never tell a lie or misrepresent facts to your teachers, classmates or any people. Communication process,principles, and ethicsCOMMUNICATION the act or process of communicating; fact of beingcommunicated. the imparting or interchange of thoughts, opinions,or information by speech, writing, or signs.ETHICS a system of moral principles deals with values relating to human conduct,with respect to the rightness and wrongness ofcertain actions and to the goodness and badnessof the motives and ends of such actions.The principle governing communication, the right and wrongaspects of it,the moralimmoral dimensions relevant toInterpersonal communication are called the ethics ofInterpersonal communication.Maintaining the correct balance between the speaking andlisteningthe legitimacy of fear and emotional appealdegree of criticism and praiseA death or an overdose of either of the factors could result inunfavourable consequences.The principle of honesty on both sides should be completelyapplied because any amount of insincerity from either thelistener or the speaker would not be prudent.FUNDAMENTALS OF ETHICALCOMMUNICATIONresponsible thinkingdecision makingdevelopment of relationships and communitiesContexts Cultures Channels MediaUNETHICAL COMMUNICATIONthreatens the quality of all communication andconsequently the wellbeing of individuals andthe society.PRINCIPLES OF ETHICALCOMMUNICATION advocate truthfulness, accuracy, honesty, andreason as essential to the integrity ofcommunication. endorse freedom of expression, diversity ofperspective, and tolerance of dissent toachieve the informed and responsible decisionmaking fundamental to a civil society. strive to understand and respect otherevaluating and communicators before responding to their messages.promote access to communication resources andopportunities as necessary to fulfill human potential andcontribute to the wellbeing of families, communities,and society.promote communication climates of caring and mutualunderstanding that respect the unique needs andcharacteristics of individual communicators.condemn communication that degrades individuals andhumanity through distortion, intimidation, coercion, andviolence, and through the expression of intolerance andhatred.Being committed to the courageous expressionof personal convictions in pursuit of fairness andjustice.advocate sharing information, opinions, andfeelings when facing significant choices whilealso respecting privacy and confidentiality.accept responsibility for the short and longtermconsequences for our own communication andexpect the same of others.Effective CommunicationLasswell  introduced an important modelLevels of communication identifiedfrom his experiences in the second worldwar, elements of which survive in moredeveloped modern models:1. Who: the source2. Says What: the message3. In Which Channel: through whatchannel or medium4. To Whom: the audience5. To What Effect: the desired effect?The Five wshas been furtherdeveloped and modernised and is now referred to as the'Five Ws' and this model has been widely used,particularly when managing change.However,addressing the 'Five Ws' is an essential element of allcommunication, getting this right is the first step in theprocess and is dependent upon what is required to becommunicated at the time.This is particularlyim ortant when mana in change in an or amsation.Laswell ModelLasswell states that in order to understand theprocess of mass communication one has tounderstand each of the stages. This model stresseson the effect räther than the message itself.Effect meansservable or measurable change In thesuggests that any change in the element change the effect.Lasswells questions dominated the media research1. Who should be told?veryone w o nee s to e told about somethingshould be told. It is advisable to relate the communicationto all as soon as possible. Openness is the key to makingeveryone feel involved (although there will always be somethings which are not disseminated as widely asothers). Where appropriate, communicate widely so thatindividuals are given the opportunity to influence theprocess and local ownership is gained. Barriers can also beidentified and overcome 2. When should they be told?The time to communicate with relevant peopleshould be carefully considered. It might be within a setmeeting or a oneoff arrangement.If the communicationcovers a wide range of people where possible it is desirablethat discussions take place at the same time to avoidconfusion, spread of rumours or misunderstandings.Ifinternal and external stakeholders are involved, internalstaff should be communicated with prior to externalstakeholders; this is to prevent staff hearing from othersources. including the media.3. What should they be told? ear messages, relatedtO the Subject or problem. Incomplex situations it is advisable to create a sharedmeaning and understanding, this can be done by: checking back with the recipients through an iterativeprocess let them ask questions asking for clarification of what they have understoodbeing clear that words, behaviours and s mbols are notmisunderstood or misinterpreted.4. Where should the messagebe conveyed?Choose the most effective medium to get yourmessage across, this could be in meetings, seminars,press releases etc. Make time to communicate properly,do not do it in the corridor, in the toilet or the carpark. This leads to gabbled and garbled messages andcan contribute to the 'grape vine'.5. Who should control thecommunications process?The most appropriate person depending on thesubject. If it involves external agencies include thePress Officer.Confucius wrote..'If language is not correct, thenwhat is said is not what is meant. Ifwhat is said is not what is meant,then what ought to be done remainsundone'.How would you describegood/effective communication?Effectivecommunicationis:aninterconnected connected system wherepeopleandideasflow quickly,comprehensively, and sustainable. Effectivecommunication is NOT just getting your pointacross to others quickly1Why and when do we need it?Effectivecommunicationisimportant all the time in every situationwhether professional or personal.Depending on the situation, effectivelives,communicationcansavemarriages, countries, or just help avoidevery day issuesWhat are the greatest challenges togood communication? People who think communication is aboutWHAT YOU SAY, versus HOW YOU SAY IT People who focus too much on BEING HEARD,instead of LISTENING TO OTHERS People who use the WRONG CHANNEL TOSEND A MESSAGE, such as choosing to discussa difficult situation with someone elsethrough a weak channel such as TEXT, EMAIL,or THROUGH SOMEONE ELSEHow important is listening incommunication?Listening is equally, and somewould say even more important,than talking when it comes togood communication.Is there a way we can measure orassess effective communication?Yes, you can measure almost anythingthough it really depends on the context as towhat measures you use. You can survey peopleabout how effective communication is, youcan map and graph emails in terms offrequency, length, quality, content, there issomething called Network analysis that is usedto analyze workplace communication, lots ofdifferent ways to measure something.Unethical communication still takes place because of one key reason: people often underestimate the impact of communication. In fact, communication is a paramount tool in developing a relationship and building trust with your audience. It has the power to shape narratives across any given topic from politics to technology and requires careful and thoughtful consideration of ethical principles.Consider the flipside. Unethical communication has the potential to significantly damage the online reputation of the organization in question. Imagine if a press release announcing a new product mentioned a unique feature that the item did not actually possess, or a social media post made false or exaggerated claims about being an awardwinning company. You can expect your audience to immediately lose trust in the organization in a way that is next to impossible to undo.What Is Ethical Communication?Simply put, ethical communication refers to communicating in a manner that is clear, concise, truthful, and responsible. But in a profession that does not have an explicit set of guidelines, it can be challenging to discern right from wrong.Be that as it may, just as the medical industry has its regulations and ethical standards to adhere to, communication professionals should observe an unwritten code of ethical conduct that acts as the backbone of our communications strategy and a key virtue of professionalism.We should always strive to achieve both effective communication and ethical communication — who says there is no way to balance both?Let’s explore four key ethical principles that every communications professional should bear in mind.1. Ensuring Transparency and HonestyCommunicate only what is known to be the truth. Ethics can be tricky in this regard because although it may not have been your intention, it is still considered unethical even if a mere 1 percent of what is said is false.I mentioned “responsibility” earlier and here’s where it comes into play: the responsibility of guaranteeing every single word is factual and accurate falls into the hands of the communications professional. This corporate social responsibility starts from conducting thorough research all the way to including proper attribution of all references and sources.Being wholly transparent also means establishing truthful representation. Disclose all pertinent details including any caveats or negatives, as minute as they may seem. Despite the fact that many people think public relations is synonymous with “the spin,” we should never change the narrative based on what we want our audience to believe.2. Understanding Your AudienceAmerican comedian, Fred Allen famously said, “An advertising agency is 85 percent confusion and 15 percent commission” but that should never be the case.Oftentimes written PR and corporate communications becomes overcomplicated with jargon and niche industry terminology that would make absolutely no sense to a layperson. This is why understanding your audience is so important. Before writing, we need to ask ourselves questions like:Who is going to read this?How much background knowledge do they have?Is there a way I can communicate this in a more straightforward manner?Let’s not forget that communication is always a twoway street. Community engagement is not just about us getting a message across. It is also the feedback we receive, which largely depends on how the message was comprehended. This means that we must factor in any language barriers that the audience may face and push for representation in our choice of words. As communication professionals, this helps us make certain that we do not present anything that may cause harm or be construed as demeaning, intolerant or even hateful.3. Respecting Confidentiality and PrivacyPrivacy is a hot topic, and rightfully so. It is so easy to get carried away, especially when there is a potentially sensational message, but always ensure you are not violating any individual’s privacy or disclosing confidential information regarding an organization.Honor and safeguard the confidentiality of your customers and partners that may have disclosed certain details that are meant to strictly be kept under wraps, even if there is no legally binding document such as a nondisclosure agreement. The same applies to those working in journalism and who may have tapped on sources that have requested to remain anonymous or shared private knowledge off the record.4. Choosing the Right Time and PlaceFollowing ethical communication practices goes beyond what you are saying, but also when and where. Take for example an advertisement for cigarettes on a children’s television channel or a feature story on hightechnology weapons in the midst of a conflict. While extreme scenarios, these demonstrate the importance of when and where we decide to communicate.Be tactful and mindful in choosing the most appropriate time and place to communicate. Plan and strategize. Research your audience, the various options you have for mediums or channels, as well as global events that may affect the way your message is received and perceived.Putting an End to the Ethical Dilemma in CommunicationsEthics should be the cornerstone of every organization’s communication strategy. We know this to be true, but what does it mean to communicate ethically? Because the topic of communication ethics is not typically discussed as often as it should, this frequently results in uncertainty on the part of communication professionals.Effective ethical communication is foundational to the success of an organization’s communication strategy. While communicating factually accurate messages honestly and transparently is central to ethical communication, it also extends far beyond that.With that in mind, what would you change about the way you communicate?The Principles of CommunicationCommunication Professionals will sometimes refer to the 7 Principles of Communication; sadly, these are not standardised (so probably level 200!), but there are some common themes which were used to inform the Communication Competency within the Microsoft 365 Maturity Model. If you are not a Communications professional you may find this interpretation of the principles helpful as part of a communications strategy, maturity assessment or technology selection.Seven PrinciplesEffectiveEvery communication should have a clear purpose and should achieve that purpose to be effective. This includes what is said, how it is delivered, when it is sent/published and why people should take notice. You need to communicate your message in the fewest possible words, have the consistency of tone, voice, and content so that you can save time. Short, punchy statements are often more effective than rambling prose. Diagrams and images provide impact and clarity. Visual design should provide a good UX, support the message and the brand and make it easy for people to engage and pick out the important elements. Each message must have a logical conclusion and a call to action.The need for active communication, where important or urgent notifications are emphasized above general messaging 'noise' and so direct their attention, should be considered alongside passive 'Publish and Track' or 'For Interest' ('Publish and Forget') approaches. Active communications should be carefully managed to prevent overuse or abuse.ComprehensivePeople shouldn’t be left wondering if there is more to come. The information communicated should be adequate and complete. Where possible, it should fully address the purpose and provide enough that the recipients can take the required action without delay, confusion or a reduction in productivity or motivation. Where communication cannot be completed in a single message etc. then it should clearly indicate that there is more to follow, with requisite when and how. Links to supporting material are recommendedClarityThe purpose of messages should be clear; worded in such a way that the receiver understands the same thing which the sender wants to convey. Communications shouldn’t leave your team confused. Be clear of the format you want to say it in. Be clear about your goal or purpose. It is also essential that the receiver is conversant with the language, inherent assumptions, and the mechanics of communication. Typically, sentences should be short, in the active voice and key elements stated it in separate bullet points.Attention and StyleIn good communication, the receiver’s attention is drawn to the message. People are different in behaviour, attention, emotions etc. so they may respond differently to the message. This may require constructing different message formats for different roles and grades. Senior staff should be seen to be acting in accordance with the messages, using the messaging tools and supporting the messaging processes. Formal communication is generally used for transmitting messages and other information; however, sometimes informal communication may prove more effective. Informal communication can be helpful for assessing the reaction of employees towards various policies. Both types should embrace the organization’s ethos; commonly this is positive, honest, respectful, open and polite.CoherencyCommunication often takes place across multiple tools/formats and over a period of time. It’s important that communication remains logical, wellplanned, and selfreinforcing across these. There should be a good connection with the main topic and, often linked to company values, principles, and mission. Equally, communication should be consistent with the policies, plans, programs and objectives of the organization and not in conflict with them.Timeliness and UrgencyCommunication should be done at proper time and with the appropriate level of impact and urgency, to ensure that messages can be understood and acted upon to achieve their objective. It should be possible to differentiate Urgent and Import information and understand the time scale for any actions. There should be confidence that communication reaches their audience when intended.Importance of FeedbackFeedback is very important to confirm that communication has been effective and to resolve questions, allow challenge, clarify actions etc. Sometimes there is a compliance requirement or monitoring function that needs to be addressed via feedback or a ‘read receipt’.Steps to establish a Communications approachWhen planning an active Communications strategy which aims to raise the maturity of this competency, completion of an audit to establish where the organisation currently is could be helpful. Subjects to consider are:Existing reputation analysis Audience analysis and segmentation. This is especially important in large organisations with different divisions as not all messages will be relevant to everyone‘Competitor’ analysis from a performance perspective‘Competitor’ analysis in terms of media perception and reputation i.e. do they receive positive, neutral or negative media coverage on average, is their news covered or ignored?Consumption. How do the people you’re trying to reach consume news? Consider the device they use and the format.A next step would be obtaining Boardlevel approved objectives from organisational and communications perspectives, clearly outlining what they (the board) are trying to achieve.This would look at identifying each audience group within their organisation and assigning comms accordingly.Before delivering corporate communications, regardless of the technology and process, organisations need to spend time planning, covering:Branding. Is it clear and easily recognisable among staff, patients, media, stakeholders etc. and chime with the overall strategy? Are all graphics, images, videos etc onbrand and have a clearly identifiable style that belongs to the organisation? A brand guardian is needed to ensure the correct use of logos, fonts, typefaces and colours for all scenarios Key message development. What does the organisation stand for and how can these key points be included across different comms formats?Inclusion. All marcomms divisions to be represented and involved in the processProcess. A clear approval process established that is shared throughout the organisation to ensure better control of messaging, timing, branding, avoids conflict and is joined upSpokespeople. Allocating spokespeople by topic so they become specialists and more trustedPlan. A clear delivery plan is needed that integrates different services and platforms e.g. intranet, website content, direct content, newsletters, email, apps, etcMetrics. Clear measurement and evaluation metrics agreed at the outsetTiming & Timeliness. Timetable and how frequent comms are. For example, weekly comms that are short and easily digested are better than long, monthly comms that can suffer from tl;dr syndrome. Timing is crucial. For example, most people are spent come a Friday afternoon after a busy week and large numbers take Friday off to enjoy long weekendsEffectiveness. Consideration needs to be given to engaging as opposed to transmitting in large organisations. A twoway flow of communication that is managed and acted upon has numerous advantagesIt is likely that external comms needs to be built into the strategy alongside and closely tied to internal comms, to ensure the interaction with ‘customers’ and stakeholders is equally robust.MODULE 1:COMMUNICATION PROCESS, PRINCIPLES, AND ETHICSOverview:This module presents the communication process. It describes the basicelements of communication process and defines concepts. It also sheds light onforms of communication and basic characteristics of each form. Our ability tocommunicate and the different forms our communication takes are very oftentaken  for  granted.  The  communication  process  is  fundamental  for  humansurvival. It is essential to the development of the individual, to the formation andcontinued existence of groups and to the interrelations among groups.Objective:Describe the nature, elements, and functions of verbal and nonverbalcommunication in its various and multicultural contexts  Illustrate the process ofCommunicationWhat is communication?We define COMMUNICATION as the process of sharing meaning in anycontext. In addition, Wood (2003), in her book “Communication in our Lives”,defined communication as systematic process in which people interact with andthrough symbols to create and interpret meanings.VERBAL AND NON VERBAL COMMUNICATION Verbal vs. Nonverbal Communication Verbal communication is the use oflanguage to transfer information through speaking or sign language. It is one ofthe most common types, often used during presentations, video conferences andphone calls, meetings and oneonone conversations. Verbal communication isimportant because it is efficient. Verbal communication could be in two forms:ORAL and WRITTEN.Nonverbal communication, on the other hand, does not involve the use ofwords. It is the use of body language, gestures, and facial expressions to conveyinformation to others. It can be used both intentionally and unintentionally. Forexample, you might smile unintentionally when you hear a pleasing or enjoyableidea or piece of information. Nonverbal communication is helpful when trying tounderstand  others’  thoughts  and  feelings.  The  7  aspects  of  nonverbalcommunication  include:  facial  expression,  eye  contact,  body  movements,posture, para language, proxemics, and physiological changes.ORAL VS. WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONOral vs. Written Communication Oral Communication is the process ofconveying  or  receiving  messages  with  the  use  of  spoken  words.  Oralcommunication can either be in the form of direct conversation between two ormore persons like face to face communication, meetings, seminars, or indirectconversation  like  telephonic  conversation,  video  call,  voice  call,  etc.  Thecommunication in which the message is transmitted in written or printed form isknown as Written Communication. It is the most reliable mode of communication,and  it  is  highly  preferred  in  the  business  world  because  of  its  formal  andsophisticated nature.ELEMENTS OF COMMUNICATION Sender is the one who begins the communication process.  Sender is also called speaker, encoder, or source. Message  It is the information being sent by the sender to the receiver.  Encoding Itis the process of putting the ideas together to compose an understandable message. Channel  It refers to any instrument being used to transfer the message.  Receiver   Receiver is responsible for interpreting and  providing response to themessage. Decoding   It  is  the  process  of  interpreting  the  message  by  breaking  down  themessage for the mind to absorb and understand. Feedback  It is the response of the receiver to the message of the sender. Noise  Noise or “Barrier” refers to any interference, interruption, or distraction duringthe communication process. 1. Intrapersonal Communication  It occurs within oneself. This is sometimes referred to as “cognitive orpersonal communication, or selftalk”. 2. Intrapersonal Communication  It refers to communication between two or more people. It has fourforms: Dyadic, Small Group, Public, and Mass Communication. We  communicate  to  meet  needs.  We  communicate  to  enhance  ormaintain our sense of self. We communicate to fulfill our social obligations Wecommunicate to develop relationship. We communicate to exchange information.We communicate to influence others.What is ethics? ETHICS are values that have been instilled in us. We have knowingly orunknowingly accepted them and govern our actions. Our ethical values system isour  basis  for  our  decisionmaking  and  our  basis  for  communication  ethics.Communication Ethics (Berko, 1995) 1. Speaks with sincerity. 2. Does not knowingly expose an audience to falsehood of halftruths that can causesignificant harm. 3. Does not premeditatedly alter the truth. 4. Presents the truth as he or she understands it. 5. Raises the listeners level of expertise by supplying the necessary facts. 6. Employs message that is free from mental, as well as physical coercion. 7. Does not invent or fabricate information. 8. Gives credit to the source of information.There are 6 C’s to Effective CommunicationCorrectness  It  is  considering  proper  grammar,  punctuation,  tone,  orformat in communicating messages. Conciseness It is stating the message briefly or direct to the point, Clarity It is making sure that the message is clear by providing completedetails to avoid confusions or misinterpretations. Concreteness It is communicating with specific details rather than generalones. Courtesy It means being polite in communicating with others, Consideration It is considering the feelings of the others with whom youcommunicate with.What is languagetechnically it is defined as a system ofrules or grammarit'sit has included itself with phonologyand of course vocabulary now thequestion isdo animals have languagethe answer is no they don't havelanguage in the strictest sensethey don't have language but they arecommunicating with each other okay theycan communicate they are not producingthe language that we are having same asthe language that we are having okay solet's continuemoving on we have terminologiesassociated withum learning and communication we havespeech community okay they are peoplesharing the same set of rules in thelanguage system so for example if we'reliving here in negros dental we have thesamespeech community because we are allspeaking healing going on if you go toamerica they belong in the same speechcommunity because they are speaking inenglish of courseand we have language acquisition it'sthe process of acquiring language usedby those in the community okay while weare growingunconsciously we are learning thelanguage from our parents from ourrelatives from our friends from ourplaymates so that process is calledlanguage acquisition now what aboutmother tongue it's the first languagethat you acquire while growing upso for us our mother tongue would not beenglish but hiligaynon of course becausethat's our dialectand it is also referred to as firstlanguage okay and the last part is whatwe call as language learning so that'sthe language learned by studyingformally in school or informally ontheir own okay i guess that'sselfexplanatoryso english we are learning englishthat's why it falls under the categoryof language learning if you are learningjapaneseor chinese orkoreans for example that's languagelearning now you might ask me what aboutenglishis it does it fall under languagelearning or language acquisition well itdepends there are families whereinenglish has been a part of theirlanguage at home so children whilegrowing upacquire english aside from its mothertongueby talking to their parents in englishand at the same time when they go toschool they also learn it so that fallsunder language learning as well so theanswer to that question is both itreally dependsso just a key thing right that you needto bear in mind when we say languageacquisitionyou acquirelanguagesometimes unconsciously just by talkingto grownups especially for for childrenwhen we say language learning it's akind of language that you really need togo to the school in order to learn itsometimes by watching videos okay that'slanguage learning now let's move on toour next partand that's going to be what iscommunicationwell it is defined as the exchange ofthoughtsideas concepts and views between amongtwo or more people various contexts comeinto play soas i mentioned earlieranimals have communication and peoplepeople we also have communicationwein terms of communication we havedifferentdifferent different types ofcommunicationand the first one is in terms of contextwe say context it's the situationenvironment in which the communicationtakes placeso it includes the physical or actualsetting the value positions of a speakeror listener okay like what he or shebelieves inand the relevance or appropriateness ofa message is conveyed okay so that'scontext let's move on we havein terms okay look at the pictureyou can see here that there are twopeople talking and of course in themiddle part there's that guy who'slistening to the conversation of the twopeoplenow we talk about communication it has aclassification right so thespecification of communication is interms of mode in terms of context and interms of purpose and style we'll get toknow more about it as we go along inthis videookay so types of communication accordingto mode the first one is of courseright as you can seethis guy is probablyapplyingfor a position and fortunately he wasaccepted he was very happy right andmoving on that's an example actually ofverbal or nonverbal communicationnonverbal communication in a sense thatas you can see they are shaking theirhands shaking their hands as an exampleof nonverbal communication using signsand gestures your facial expressionsfall under nonverbal communication youreye contact okay but for verbalcommunication is the use of wordsokayto communicate your ideas your thoughtsyour feelings anotheruh type of communication according tomode is what you can see in there in thepicture right the guy is looking at thepicture and then or the wall probablythat's a muralandout of that mural there is communicationthere because it's a it's as if that theartist is communicating to the personwho is viewing thatumthatart okay so that's what we call as avisual communicationandwe often do that rightthat's why they said that picturepaints a thousand wordssometimes just by viewing a simplepicture we can have a lot of messages initwe can communicate through pictures okayso that's what we call as visualcommunication now this time there isalso types of communication according tocontextokay so we have here the first one isintrapersonal when we say intrapersonalit's happening from within meaningyou're communicating within yourselfthat's what we call as a reflectionwe always do that of course say forexample when we arereflecting on our day'sscenario like what we did in today'sactivity right we reflect we say did idodid i do good today did i make somethingbad right so you're asking yourselfthat's intrapersonalokay not when you talk about that youmight be thinking oh come on maybeabout am i crazy if i do that well ofcourse not according toresearch actually that's what you callas metacognitive or metacognition youare trying tothinkmore about yourself okayyou are trying to reflect and accordingto researchit's actually a highest form ofintelligence you're able to reflect onwhat you've done wrong what you've doneright something like that okay next wehaveokay so yeah that's what you can see inthe picture and then we haveinterpersonal communication from theprefix inter meaningit'swith other people so a communicationwith other peoplenot that kind of communication of courseokaybutthe highlight of that is they are havingteamwork but not in a good sense ofcoursesomething that we should not dookay and here you they are communicatingthrough friends and they are playingover here okay that's interpersonalcommunication kids communicateyeah especially when they're playingthey're communicating they'recommunicating a lot okay next we havetwo objectives of interpersonalcommunication we have transactional andmaintaining social relationship when yousay transactional you are trying you'recommunicating because you wanted to getsome information from someone okay butwhen you say maintaining socialrelationship you're communicatingbecause we want to build relationshipwith each otheryou want to strengthen your relationshipthat's why there's there's a great roleof communication in there so those arethe two objectives of our interpersonalcommunication now in here i'll be givingyou situations and then think about youranswersto this questionin the situation number one we havespeaker a speaker bright there talking soif you're going to read that speaker isaid hello i'm k ramos and youoh i'm vanessa mendoza glad to meet youhow are you related to the brideshe's my cousinher mom and mine are sisters how aboutyoushe was my high school classmate i neverknew anything about her personal life soyou're kind of surprised when she sentus the invitationas always she's very privatei see well she is really like that eversince we were kids she's always been avery quiet personokayand that's situation number oneyou're going tocompare later situation number one andsituation number two let's continue sofor situation number tworightwe haveokay it says here excuse me would youknow how to get to the nearest mallyes in fact you may go there on food orsimply take a jeepney if you walk itwill take you about 20 minutes to getthere you can just take the exit gatenear the hospitalthen turn left and walk straight aheadyou won't miss it because of the bigsign jeepneys take the same route and itshould not take you more than 10 minuteseven with the traffic and speaker i saidthank you very much i think i will justtake the public transportation as i'mrunning out of time you have been reallyhelpful thanks again nowihave given you two situations which doyou think is transactional and which doyou think isumto maintain social relationshipswell if your answerissituation number one forto maintainsocialrelationshipthen you are correct okay as you can seethey are getting to know more of eachother they want to get to knowthe the other person in terms of theirrelationship to the briderightnow what about in situation number twosituation number two is just more ofasking informationhow to get to the nearest mall so thisone is what we call as transactional weare communicating because we want to getinformation from other person whom weare talkingtookay i hope it's clear now let's move onto our next partand that's going to be extendedcommunication so it involves the use ofelectronic mediaandwhen we talk about extendedcommunicationunlike before when it only called forthe use of television radio nowadays thedescription of extended communicationmay be expanded as to include tele audiophone conferencing video conferencingskype zoom and other technological meansto make it short we say extendedcommunicationit's a communication that is beingchanneled through differentmedia platforms so right now we areacquainted with that especially now thatwe areon temporary lap downs for example weare communicating even until now rightwe are communicating we are usingextended communication actually becausewe are using an appjust to conveyi'm using an app for example just toconvey myinformation to you guys so that's anexample of extended communication soagain we havelet's review we haveintrapersonal communication we haveinterpersonal communication and we haveextended communication so from the firstone again when you say intrapersonalcommunication you're reflecting withinyourself it's a communication like sayfor example your it's a battle betweenyour mind and your heart right so you'rekind of reflecting on the best thingthat you should do in a given situationthat's intra personal communication nextwe have interpersonal communicationyou're communicating with other peopleokay it can be your objective can betransactional or to maintain socialrelationship and the last one isextended communication you are usingother media platforms to convey yourthoughts your opinions or your feelingsokaynext moving on to differentcommunication models so we havearistotle's modelwe have laswell's model shannon weaver'smodel and david burles model we'll getto know more about them laterbut i guess you're all familiar withthem when you were in a senior highschool so they were already discussed byyour teacher but this time let's justhave a quick recap of everythingokay so let's go witharistotle's communication model well weall know that he is the one of thegreatest philosopheruntil now he's a really in a legend interms of philosophyokay so what is aristotle'scommunication model this is a very firstcommunication model what you can seehere there are three variablesinvolved in the communication processthere's a speaker the speech andaudience now i'll ask you what do youthink is the most importantvariable in the communication process inhis modelis it speakeris it speech is it audiencewell your answer isspeech nookay definitely not speech not audienceso the correct answer isthe correct answer isspeakerso according to aristotlethe veryimportant the most important variable inthe communication process is the speakerokayso that's it whywhy say for examplethere is a politicianright and this politician is invited tospeak toum to his cu to his possiblepossible constituents someday so he'stalking with the aim of convincing thevoters to vote for him in the comingelectionright so for example the name of the thepolitician is peter so peter will talkaboutum the needs of that communitywhere those people areareliving at okay so he will be talkingabout the needs thatif ever he he will be voted he will dothis and do that blah blah blahsomething like that so again it's hisaim is to convince themto vote for himsoas a speaker he needs to do everythingin order to get his message acrosssuccessfully so he will use goodtone of voice he need to make sure thathe is having maintaining an eye contacthe's using an appropriate facialexpression to convince his listeners tovote for him in the coming election soin that case it's a onewaycommunicationin there the speaker is the one who isbeing activebut the audience are just pure listenersand active i don't know passivelisteners okayumif we're delivering speech this isusually what we're usingespecially for having persuasivespeecheswe're inthe audience we're notsometimes given the feedback audiencewill just listen to you passively andyour goal is toconvince them to believe in your causeokay so that's an example of the arrestcommunication model until now we'restill using that model of courseunconsciouslyokay next we do haveuh laswell's communication model he'sjust emphasizingthe whosaid itwhatwhat was said in which channel was itsaid to whom was it given and what wasthe effect actually uh lasswell'scommunication model uhexisted because at this time he was juststudyinguh you know the the impact or the effectof communication toto business side especially in terms ofpromoting a product for example sousuallyumpeopleuhthey it's it matters a lot who saidthat thing regarding a product that'swhy business people are trying to getfamous personalities toto promote their product because youknow buyerswe buyers sometimeslisten to those who are credible enoughto say it say for example thethe product is about whitening rightit's a whitening product of courseyou will not get someone who is blackright because it's whitening product soyou would obviously get some a koreanmodel for example a filipino model who'svery white in complexion and it appearsthat he's sayingoh you know by using this product theybecome super whitediamond white golden white somethinglike that and which channel was it usedsoit will be broadcasted on tv or onyoutube or on other media platforms towhom so you have to take note who is thereceiverifit would be more on women then you haveto geta person of course who's also a womanand what was the effect of that they arestudying what's the effect of all oftheseif they were able to garner a lot ofcustomers so that wasthe reason why last week's communicationmodel existedokay all right so moving onit was described by harold whitelasswell back in 1948okay next we haveshannon and weaver's communication modelsoat that time uhlast wallswas working for bell laboratories in1949 and claude elwood shannon warrenweaver's model of communication wasintroducedat first it was conceptualized for thefunctioning of the radio and televisionservingsserving as a model for technicalcommunication and later on adapted inthe field of communication so here is anexample so there is this senderright you see thiswho is being the source of theinformation and then the message will beencodedokayso whatever things that we have in mindit will be encoded right it will beverbalized and of course there would belike a signal and there's a channelchannel how did youhow did youuh what channel what communication didyou use to get your message to yourtarget recipients and then there'sdecoding of course the recipient willdecode it will try to understand what isbeing saidand of course the message will bedelivered but along the way this modelemphasized that there is some noise orwhat we call as distractionssometimes there is a possibility thatwhile you are trying to get your messageacross the recipientthere are some noise distractions thatyour message will not be transmittedhundred percentokay that's why for example if teacheris talking right nowand you're listening to me and at thesame time you're chatting with yourfriendsthere's a possibility that you miss outmy message you know what i'm saying andthatpart when you're chatting with yourclassmates that's an example of noiseokayunfortunately this model lacksfeedbackright so the very first model of thisonelacks feedback but otherwise it'sactually very nice this model is reallygoodokay but it's just that it doesn't havefeedback okayall right let's continue theremoving onyeah so that's it how's how different isit from the first two models discussedearlier well i say well of course thereis the addition of noise or distractionwhich is very truealong the way we care we really couldnotum transmit the message most of the time100 because along the way there isdistraction okayall rightsometimes distraction can happenexternally sometimes internally likeyou're all you can't seems that you'relistening to me but inside you'rethinking about something right so thisstill considered to be the noiseokay next we have brillo's communicationmodel so this was david brillo heconceptualized it in 1960 and probablythe most well known among thecommunication modelsit's initially called smcr s stands forsendermessagecommunication or channel rather sorryand of course receiverokayandit was later modified to include noiseokaysmcrn okay so what about this one so wehave here the sourcewhich is the person who has thatinformation for example if thatinformation comes from your mind so thatyou become the source so when we talkabout source that includes the person'sattitude the person's culturewhat he or she believes in hercommunication skills his knowledge hissocial systemokay and of course for message itincludes the content elements treatmentstructure and codeokaylater i'm gonna later on i'm gonnaillustrate that so for channel we havehow did you transmit your message howdid youget your message to your receiveris it by hearing is it by seeing is itby touching smelling tastingand of course for the receiveryou know umthere's a possibilitythata person can get the message hundredpercentokayif they have the samecommunication skills attitudes knowledgesocial system culture you know what i'msayingwhyfor examplei will bei will be telling you about my personalbelief onuhtopic aboutenvironmental change right so that'sthe information is coming from me i amthe source and my message iswe are we need to help each other inorder toto save somehow save our environmentwhat did i use what channel did i use sowell maybe i would use like i reallypersonally say that to you then thatinvolves hearingseeing meright not tasting me of course okay soonly two channels hearing and seeing andthenyou as a receiverit would make sense to you more if youhave the same attitude with me if you'remore an environmentalisttherefore my message willget to you or will be delivered to youhundred percent because you also haveyou can relate to it you have the sameknowledge you have the same beliefsokaysothat's the importance of smcr there aretimes when you're not on the same pageyou know what i'm saying the source andthe receiverare not on the same page they don't havethe samevaluessystems or the way the way they thinkthat they're different then sometimesthe message will not betransmitted 100okayso that's whysometimes we need toum think about who will be our audienceor our listenersokay so that's it moving onokay so i guess we're done again let'shave a quick review so for ourcommunication modelswe havearistotle's modelwe have last fall's model shannonweaver's model david burles model wehave general principles of effectivecommunication i guess this is a verythe the meat of the matterbecause we want to improve ourcommunication and we want to be aneffectivecommunicator an effective speaker bydoing sowe can send our message our thoughts topeople effectively now the first one isknow your purpose in communicating it'svery important for us to know ourpurpose in communicating because if youdon't know your purposeyou can't get your message acrossyou know uh so you need to knowum am i going to communicate to informto persuadeto entertainnow you get to know things about thatyou need to know about that okay nextknow your audienceare my audience kidsteenagersadults professionalsby do by knowing your audience you wouldbe able to improveyour speech your communication forexample you will be delivering a talk toor you'll be delivering uh you'll betelling a story ratherto a group ofelementary kidsof course knowing the fact that they areelementary students they want tothey want to have animated facialexpressionsthey want tohave a good tone of voice that wouldcharacterize the characters in the storyvery wellokay so you have to know your audienceokay that's the keynext know your topicthere's a saying that you cannot givewhat you do not have and that is trueyou cannot talk aboutsomethingwhich you really do not know anythingabout or else you will just besaying nonsense all throughout yourspeech all throughout your communicationokay next we have adjust your speechyour writing to the context of thesituationnow for example you'll be delivering atalktothe graduatesof courseyou have toadjust your speech in a way that couldinspire graduates to move forwardto do their best after graduationanother thing is if you're talking forexample you have to adjustyouryour speech when you think that youraudience are notare not listening alreadyso for example if you think that theyare already yawning or they are restlessthat gives you a clue that your speechnow is very boring maybe you can crack ajoke in betweenokay so that's it that's how you adjustyour speech according to the context ofthe situationnext work on the feedback given to youit's a very important this onewe are notperfectfrom time to time we have tomastersomething we need to improve somethingso you can say that oh i've been aspeaker forfor a decade now and who who is she tosay something against me about how ideliver my speechwell you know if you always create aroom for improvement you woulddefinitely improvebut if you areyou know blocking yourself with all thefeedbacksthat should that are given to you youwill definitelywill not improve my dear okay so youhave to work on it treat the feedbackthat was given to you in a positive waybecause at the end of the day it willhelp you improveas a speaker as a communicator okayall right next principles of effectiveoral communication first onelike i said you have to be clear withyour purpose this is oral communicationnowcomplete with the message you deliveryou should not be running around thebushyou have to get your message acrosssuccessfully you have to be concise okaydirect to the point be natural with yourdeliverybe youokaydo not follow other people be you benaturalokay all right be specific and timelywith your feedback so this is veryimportant especially if you have friendsand they are having oral communicationit's also nice to help your friends begiving timely feedback you can start offby saying you know what you did good inthis aspect you did good on this partblah blah blah rightand then after that you can saysomething like but i guess next time youcould do better if you do this blah blahblah right so something like thatnext principles this time of effectivewritten communication you have to beclear like in oral communicationbeing clear what what you're talking isvery important be concise as i mentionedbe concrete be correct with what you'rewritingokay especially if you are writingtechnicaltechnicalstuff okay you have to be correct forexample if you're writing a memookayyou have to be correct in that case orelse you will be labeled as someone whoissaying something that is not true may becoherentokay meaning you are you're writing anessay for example your introduction yourbody and conclusion should be stitchedtogether they should be organized in away that they connected with each otherexcuse me be complete as well and begorgeous okay i'd like to emphasize thiswhere do you see when communication isnot only for oralyou can show yourcourtesy evenin written communication for example ifyou're writing a lettermost of us will just say for exampleyou're addressing it to me you would saylike dearmrsbillianascommatechnically that is not being gorgeouswhy because you aresending that letter to someone who is inauthority in this caseto someone to your teacher so you canshow courtesy bywriting a colonokay that's being gorgeous because commais only used for friendly letterslike letters that you're going to sendto your friends to your familyto your loved ones but if you're goingto send it to someone who is inauthority you have to use columnokaywhat else you have to be you can showcourtesy or being cautious if you re ifyou cite the correct title of thatpersonso for example you're writing a letterstill you have ifthat person that you're writing to is adoctor you have to indicate their titletheir designation and stuff like thatand one thingthe greatest mistake spellingdo notyou you are showing that you're gorgeousto that person if you shouldspell his or her name correctlyso those are just examples and how youcan show courtesy when you're writingokayall right so let's move on to our nextparteffects of communication so it's veryimportant that when we're communicatingwe have to establish an effective valuesystem okaythat woulduh pay for the development of yourintegrity as a person for example if youcommunicate in a way that you're alwaysyou're always cracking a joke even withoutside the contextright you're nothaving or you're not developing yourintegrity thereokayif you arecursing other people while you'recommunicating you're not developing yourintegrity there so that's one ethic thatwe have toumbear in mind next we have to providecomplete and accurate information it'svery importantwe should notspread fake news especially at thismomentduring this pandemic when people aregoing onlinepleaseavoid spreading fake newsokay the online world is already floodedwith that don't add to that okayand number three disclose a vitalinformation adequately and appropriatelyit's very important that we do thatappropriatelyokay soif it's something that is private weshould not divulge that information toother peopleokay especially now especially in thatyou will soon become professionals youshouldreally value this ethics ofcommunicationokay sowe're on we're already done with ourlessonglobalizationbut of course before we delve into ourlessonwe i would like for us to talk aboutwhat you can see on the screeni'm sure all of youhave a hintofwhat is this all about okay and how isit related to our lesson because as youknow we are our lesson is about or oursubject is about propositivecommunication so how are ryan banks andyenstory related to itokayabout last month i guess or a few weeksagothese twopersonalities in the showbiz industryhave trendedwhen miss yang revealed on a nintendshow about their storyand it has really sparked a lot ofpeople okay and some of them makingtheir own opinions and you knowsharing their own stories which is aboutyou know howthe communication how communication isimportantokay not only in relationship but alsoon the other aspects so miss yangrevealed that about 10 or 12 years agoryan bang used to court herand she felt killingyou know she felt so happy whenryan bang always gave him some coffeeand then one dayryan van suddenly stops and ian kept onwonderinguh what happened souh it was onlynow at this year 2022 when the realreason behind what mr ryan mountain wasrevealed and as we all know i guessuh he stopped because he thoughtthatjendoesn't like him andon the other sidehe thought thatryanmight have been tired and that's whyuhthey're supposed to be relationship didnot work out well so okay so from thatwe know that they really lack thecommunication okay to communicate theirfeelings and their thoughtsto one another that's why it didn't workout that well okay so that's only anintroduction or an overview about whatwe are going to talk about todayokay so firstokay we know that uh we are allconstantlyexchanging and receiving communicationsso problems arisewhen the message sentin the communication is not received orunderstood as intended or or when anonverbal message is sentsubconsciously that contradicts thespoken word so for this lesson it aimsto help these students okay like you tounderstand the value of effectivecommunication skillsnot only at the school at work butwherever you go okay so it will focus onthe understanding of communication andits componentsokay and of course like what we havementioned a while ago the processand elements of communication in theprinciples behind it and lastly ofcourse the ethics okay according toalexandercommunicationoccurs when a senderexpresses an emotion or feelingkey or generates an idea or senses needto communicate so when the sendermakes conscious or unconscious decisionto share the messagewith another personwhich is the receivercase of the communication processbeginsthis oneokay souh communication as we know is theprocessof exchanging information between two ormore peopleokay so another author or anotherscholar have that at this notion ofcommunicationandhe defined itas the process of transmittingokay information and commonunderstandingfrom one person toanotherokay so both of them both the sender andthe receiver must be able to exchangeinformationand understand each otherfor communication to besuccessfulokay so it will fail communication willfail if this flow of information isdisrupted or blocked okay so later on iwill give you uh three workingdefinitions for communication but let usfirst delve into theuh root wordand for us to be able to understand morewhat communication is okay so it camefrom the greek word or latin wordcommuniswhich meanscommon okay so in our everyday livingfor a communication to be effectivelytransmitted elements of communicationmust be present okayin this includedspeakerwhich this one which is represented bythis girl wearing the green uh longsleeves and then of course the mess themessage that patrons meetthe receiver which is represented bythis manwearing a orangetreeand then the channelthe feedback and of course thecommunicative situation okay soaccording to the author that wementioned a while ago which is alexanderevery communicative act is based onsomething that conveysmeaning okay and that convenience is themessage okay so the message can beeither spokenor oraland written okay so or it can be alsononverbalnonverbal communication includes ourbody language okay physical appearanceorvocal tone okay so messages may alsoemerge from the communications contextof place and timeokay so for exampleif you choose to make a critical remarkto someonethe place and time you choose to make tomake that earn mark will have asignificant impact on how that remark isreceived okayimagine you and your friend are in abeauty competition and then you told herthat she does not lookat her best this night or that day ofthe competition imagine what or how yourfriend will receiveuh will perceivethat message that you told her okay soit can lead her to lose her confidencebecauseuhthe time that you said it is not reallythe right time for you to make a remarkor maybe a joke like that okay sofurthermore every message is sent andreceived using one of our five senses onand you know i'm sure the five sensesokay decide to hear the touchtaste and smell okay socommunication channels are dissensorymedia through whichmessages aresentand received so so when the message isreceivedokay so by saying hearing and such thereceiver will usually givefeedback okayor feedback or return messageeither unconsciously orconsciously okay so as a result theprocess of communication is still inprogress the worst assumption a messagesender can make is that the message willbe received in its original format okaybecause there are so many things thatcan go wrong during the communicationprocess okay so we should always assumethat something will go wrong and take astep step by day okay so there arealways obstacles in the way of effectivecommunicationso for example the language itself canbe a barrier it includesthe unclear wording islam jargon andtone so these factors can lead toineffective communication okay soanother stumbling block is the sender'sfailureto recognize that his or her bodylanguagemay contradict the spoken message okayso it's possible that the channelthrough which the message was deliveredwas incorrect okay for example you won'tuse the telephone to really a lot ofstatistical data okayinstead what you need to do is to writeit downso let us talk about some facts incommunication first okay and the firstone is that we are social beings and wehave the need to express our thoughtsour feelings doubts and so on okay sothis needs to express and to be listenedtoare actuallybasic or innate in all of us okay butoneenglish poet namedben johnsonsaid that the ability to speak and theability to speak so well or twodifferent things okay so when we sayspeaking well okay it is comparable toany skill in the sense that it can bedeveloped and enhanced so all you haveto do is to expose yourself to variousspeaking situations okay so listen welland study how effective speakers expressthemselves okay uh one way for you todevelop and enhance your speakingskills is of courseum maybe joining some debates or someimpromptu speech or maybeuh just doing thisyou know umrecording yourself and speaking inenglish so you can develop their yourspeaking skills okay so you canwatch in youtube someuh speakers some good speakersand then you can listen or learn fromtheir strengths and practice wheneveropportunities arise because you knowpractice makes perfectokay sothere you gookay it's a little bit too latebut okay so as you can see here if it isto beit is up to me okay and as much as 75of the average person's day is spent incommunicating okaysonowlet's go to the definitions ofcommunication okay soas i've said earlier we are going totalk about the three definitions ofcommunication and the first one is thatcommunication is a processby which we assign and convey meaning inan attempt to createshared understanding okay so in orderfor us to create uma shared understanding between thespeaker and receiver okayuh it requires uh a clan list arepertoire of skills so for instance weneed the skills of observingof listeningspeaking questioninganalyzing and evaluatingso for example you are going to someoneand you are not paying attention you arenot listening to him or her then youcannot get his intended meaning okay sofor you to be effective communicator orfor uneffective communication to existthese list of rapper trusts i'vementionedshould bedone okay so let's go to the seconddefinition so the second meaning is thatcommunicationcan be seen as processes of informationtransmission governed by the threelevels of semiotic ruleswhich are the syntactic pragmatic andsemantic okay let us try to learn orreview these three levels okay so thefirst one we have the syntacticokay so syntactic or syntax okay it'sthe studyof sentences structure and the rules ofgrammar okay so let's start with thissentence okay for examplethe sentence will bethe through pasture that chased a dograbbitokay so using the normal rules of syntaxour exampleuhmeans nothing okay but if you try torearrange its uh each words in a neworder they can make a perfectsyntactical sentence okay so when werearrange that it can be the dog cheeseor rabbit through the pastureokay so that's the syntactic okay nowlet's have the semantic okay sosemantic refers to the meaning of asentence okay so pay attention to thisbecause uhit can beuhyou can get confused with pragmatic whenyou forget of the definition of this oneokay so without proper semantics and athoughtful grammatically correctordering of words the meaning of asentence would be completely differentokay so for exampleuh semantics can change the meaning of asentence with the order of words solet's let us consider the sentenceshetossed the balland the other sentence the ball tossedher okay so in the first the subject ofthe sentence is actively tossing a ballwhile in the water she is the one beingtossed by a ball okay so that is whysemantic is important okay souh let's havepragmatic so pragmatic is also the studyofuh the meaning of sentences within is acertain context okay so it looks beyondthe literal meaning of an utterance of asentence okay so for exampleif you were told toup the window and the room was a littlestuffy and the speaker had just saidpriorities that they were feeling like alittle worm then you would knowpragmatically that this speaker wouldlike you to open the window across orjust a little so if you were with afriendwho was locked out of his home and youwere standing at the back door trying toget inside your friend might say crackthat window and literally need to put acrack in the window or break the windowso you can seethe context impacts the meaning to beconstructedokay so communicationin summaryis the act of passing news informationat the act of sharing of or exchangingthoughts ideasfeelings with other or with a groupand orit is the act of participating with orsharing in common though we belong tosame feeling okaysonowuhthere are also otheruh scholarswith uh who tried to define thecommunicationand we can see hereokay so communication is the sum of allthings okay telling listening andunderstanding okay can also be accordingto henry kant's transferring ofinformationaccording to george terry it is theexchange of ideas feelings thoughts andsuch as well as the emotionsand for keith davis it is the purpose ofpassing information and understandingbetween two persons so in summarycommunication is everythingbut what we do every day okay the momentwe wake up until we sleep okay so wewill know moreokay about the explanation of this onthe next slides okay so nowlet's talk about the types ofcommunicationand first we have the communicationaccording to modeand it is letter e the verbalcommunication and the verbalcommunication can be divided intotwo subtypes as well and the first onewill be the auraokay and the other one is the writtenverbal communicationso when you say oral i think you are allfamiliar with thisokay sospoken words are used okay it includesface to faceuh speech or telephonic conversation orvideo okay when we face timeor call true messenger with our friendsit is also considered as the oral verbalcommunicationradiouh television or voice over internetokay sohere communication is influenced byspeechvolumespeed and clarity ofspeakingokaysonow uh before we go to the next pagei would just like to clarify what verbalcommunication isokay so verbal communication okay is theprocess again of sending and receivingmessages with words okay includingwriting and sign language okay so it istransmittedverbally okay and it is done by word ofmouth and a piece ofwritingokay sooral is just like what you already knowokayyou speak sina sabi mushaokayand verbal communication in terms oforal communication has its advantagesand disadvantagesokay so the first onewe have of courseum when it is oralit brings quick feedback of course okayimagine you are talking to someone soyou canget the response of that personas quickly as possible so you can getthe feedback so for example you aretalking to someoneandhe is annoyed by you so you can get thatemotion you can receive that messagethat he or she would like to convey okaythat he is annoyedokayby you right so that is just quick whenyou are in a facetofacecontext or setting another one is thatin a facetoface conversation byreading facial expression and bodylanguage one can guess whether he or sheshould trust what's being said or notokay so we are all actuallyuhexperiencing this one right when we aretalking to someoneand we are guessinguh whether this person is sayinguh facts or buffs okay sowe can observe them through their bodylanguageand facial expressions okay another oneis in a facetoface conversation byreading facial expression in bodylanguage one can guess whether he or sheshould trustwhat's being said or not okay soimagine when you are talking to someoneand then you feel like uhthat person is not saying what is truego throughthe facial expressions and body languageuh you can meet aguessokay or feeling whetherthat person can be trusted or not okaythere is actually onestudy that saysuh if you would like to catch if theperson is lying to youyou should observe if he can make eyecontact to you so if he cannot make aneye contact to you while you you two aretalking and that he keeps on looking atleft or right okay that person might belyingokay so that is one advantage of oralcommunicationokay souh let's have another one it seems timein communication i'm sorry okay it savestime in communication well of course ascompared towhen we are talking to someone forexample through messengerand they arewe are talking to some important matterand then youthe tendency is you cannot getthe feedback that or response that youwould like to get as soon as possiblebut when we are in a facetofacesetting and you are talking next tosomeone about the important matterthenthat saves time okayso another one is it provides completeunderstanding of communication deliveredand there is a chance to make it clearerin case of doubts in interpretation ofwords or ideas okay soit just simply saidthat if you would like to clarifysomething being saidby someone you are talking to thenyou can make ituhright away you can make it right awayyou can clarifyuh maybe uh for example uhsomeone for me it's for example when youare talking to mein a facetoface situation in a personsituation and then ispeak slowly or maybe my words are notclearthen if it is orally ifuh in given our situation you canclarify it to me right away you know youcan say uhmom oran apologyokay so that's one advantage okaynextuh it is a more reliable method ofcommunicationbecause you cannot fakeuhwhat you feel during the time that youare talking to someone okay already okayas compared touh chatting to someoneuh through messenger for exampleuhyou're talking to yourromantic partner to your boyfriend orgirlfriend and then on the two of yougot into a fight and thenuh when true messenger for example youcan uh tell him or herthat you are not hurt okay by hisactionsby her actionsokay but uh you are actually faking itand he doesn't have an idea about itbecause you cannot see each other okayyou are just communicating through thedevice that you are using but when weare in oral situation of course okayeven again the facetoface conversationokayuh it cannot you can you can say thatyou are not worried by his actions butwhen your facial expressions uh saysotherwise then we can uh quicklysay thatseeingyour real feelings okay and you canconfirm that right away okay so it ismore reliable because it is alreadythere okay it is what it isokay so it is also powerful means ofpersuasion and controlokay uh yes okay i think uh this canalso be a downside but of courselet's look at the advantage first okayso for example through an oral or afacetoface conversation given thesituation that uh in a classroom settingfor exampleuh we can communicate orally and that icanhave the controlor the authority between you guys okayor among your among you students okayas compared toiwant toexpress my authority through themessenger okay some of you may justignore my message and you know it isit is a disadvantageand the last one will be it is a cheaperway of communicationand hence saves money of course ofcourse you don't have to spend moneywhen you talk to someone for example youcannot say that i'll pay you five pesosjust tell meum the answer or just respond to what iam saying okay so and that person cannotkeep quiet for a long time okay and waitfor your bypasses payment okay becausewe do that because we doesn't do thatokayand it hence saves money okay so don'tworry we will discuss the written uhverbal communication as welland thecomparisons that we made here will bemore clearerwhen we discuss it okay so now let's goto the disadvantages uh disadvantageokay so the first one will be it hasissues when communicating with distantpeople okay so yes it can be hard for usto communicate or to talk to someoneuh who are distant uh when we are usingthe verbal communication becausethe tendency is thatthat person may not actuallywant to talk to you or just ignore youand you will just lookuh fullokay in the fullest situation okaysoanother one is that emotions are visibleand hence leads to trouble in certainphases so we already discussed this awhile agowhen emotions are visible because wecannot fake it okaysoyeah it can lead us tosome trouble for example imagineuhtalking to someone and then uh yourconversation heated nouh and that other person becomes soangryand then that emotion can actuallyhit upthe conversation that you have and thereis a possibility that the personsof emotioncan hurt you okay you can hurt all theboth of you okayall right let's have another one uh itdoes not provide permanent record unlessit is recorded with modern means ofstorageokay that is whywhen we look at its good side you saysomething and thensomeone tries to use that against youyou can ask him first where is yourevidence okay did i say that okay so itdoes not you can deny it as long as youwant and that person cannot do anythingunless he or she recordedum that conversation between you two butwe have astandard rule that we cannot record someconversation without the permission ofthe other personsoyou know when we uh when it is oralcommunicationuh unless it is recorded we it is not itcannot provide a permanent record okayand the last one that we have here isthat there is a chance of leak of secretinformationwith the help of modern devices such aspolygraph or lie detector okay so someuh people use a slide detector testto prove something okay that they wonokay so we can see this oncelebrities actually on televisionssoit can be a source of uhyeah secret uh information link okaybecause we do not intend toreveal that to someonebecause it's a secret okay but becauseof that we don't have the choice and beopen to the publicright now let's have another type ofverbal communication now let's go tocommunicationokay so as we uh see hereokayuhrelated signs or symbols are used tocommunicate writing science includethe period the question mark anexclamation point commaellipsis and so on okay so followingtheir correct usage will make yourwriting easier to read and moreappealing and symbols on the other handare often charactersthe settings the images or other modelsthat stand in forbigger ideas written verbalcommunication includes the emails okaythe gmail the yahoo mailsome internet websites orsocial media sites such as the facebookthe twitter instagram and so on it alsoincludes the traditional one for examplethe letters okay the proposals okaytelegrams uh the google classroomokay contracts ads brochures and a lotmore okaysouh rita communication is most commonform of communication being used inbusiness okay now let's just like whatwe did in the oral communication let usstudy each advantages and disadvantagesokay first one is that messages can beedited and revised okayso of course that's true okay forexamplewhen i when i assigned you an assignmentand then you are not satisfied about itthen before you pass it you canedit it out and revise your work okayand it can be a better output ascompared to the oral verbalcommunication working when you saysomething and you did not think about itfirstit happened that you hurt someone youcannot take it back the damage has beendone okay so that's the advantage ofuh written as compared to the oralcommunicationokay now let's have another one is thatit provides record and a backup ofcoursebecause it's written you can saveyour works through google drive likethat portrait to your computerarchive and then uh those serves as youknow permanent recordandup okay it's just there whenever youneed so for example uh you are lookingfor the file that uh you madetwo years ago and then you needed it nowokay you can just look back or look itup on your documents and thenthere you go can help you this timearound againright another advantage is thatit enables the receiverto fully understand it and sendappropriate feedback okay so for examplewhen i check your assignments or youroutputs okay i can fully understand whatyou are doingand then i can provide a feedback uhjust like what i did last time for mypast students okay so whenever they sendtheir assignments imessage each of them just to give themthe feedback on their improvementsanother advantage is that it is easy topreserveokay so the documents of writtencommunication are easy to preserveso if it is needed important informationcan be collected from the preserveddocument so this isjust a same with thesecond advantageokay and it's also the same with thepermanent record and of course use as areference okay so for examples on thebooks uh when you do your research yourteacher always ask you to useyour referencesin order to compare some studies okay sonow let's go to the disadvantages okayso the first one is the lack of secrecya y okay because written communicationis exposed to everyone who is concernedwith the message or information okay sothere is a chance of leakage ofinformationfrom any employees if you are workingand from any other students or friendsfor exampleas compared to oral communication whenyou want to talk to someone about asecret you can just talk to that personalone okay but in written communicationwhen you write it down on a letter thatperson has a tendency to share it toothers okay remember when you were highschool and then you sendvalentine's letter to your crushand then you thought that it's justbetween you and your crush but then ithappens that your crush asks his friendsto read it as wellso there you go there's no secrecy thatnow your secret has been revealed okaynowlet's also have another one writtencommunication is a comparativelyexpensive because it uses paperpen ink and it sometimes alsorequires a computer now another one isthat it istime consuming okay when you have animportant matterand then new messageor you can read the message through themessenger and that person is not onlineokay so it's a waste of time waiting fortheir replies other one is that lack offlexibility okay so there are somepredetermined formalities that arerequired to be maintained while makingwritten communication okay soobservation of such formalities is anegative processif any immediate change is required itis not possible instantly due to thelack of flexibility in writtencommunication okay so what we mean hereis that when we aresending a message through the messengerthesms or gmail okay so there arefour months different formats that arein these threeplatforms okay for example you cannotjust say your message right awayin the gmail as compared to yourmessage in messengerbecause in gmail you have to be moreformal okay so there is a format okayfor example at the top you will putfirst the greetings okay or hisir or madam and then the follow uhsentence will be greetings and then thefollow sentence will be your intentionokay i am christine blablaand i am writingto request blah blah blah and then atthe end he will say thank you very muchfor your time attached here weed is mydocument in blah blah and thenafterwards you are going toput our regards orsincerely yours and then your name andlike in messenger that you can just uhtype right away what you would like toconvey right and you don'tactually need to put your name becauseit's already there okay so that's thelack of flexibility and i would alsoliketo add the late feedback okay sowhen the receiver opens the message okayand reads it very attentively taking itmore time okay so when he responds toyour message it takes some additionaltime to answer it there is also atendency that he can forget about itokay just like the most of us we arewaiting for summer lives but the realityis that we haven't senda message yet to the person that we arereading our reply from let's have theletter bthe nonverbal communication okay sononverbal communication is the sendingor receiving of wordless messages okayso it includes the body language thegesture the posturetone of voice facial expression soremember the difference is that it isworried less okay it has three elementsokay we have the appearance okay forexample for the speaker so it includesthe clothingthe hair styleneatness use of cosmetics another one isthat appearance surrounding so it can bethe room size lighting decorations andfurnishings okay so it is critical okayto the successful transmission of amessagein oral forms of communicationfor example you are going to attendan interview for a jobokay so which one would you prefer towear or dress lousy or to dress or wearneatly of course you would choose thesecond one because impressions are firstimpressions listand that says about uh that says a lotabout your personality and attitude thatcan affectperformance in the job interview okaythat ishow much the appearance can make animpact tothe meaning that we want to convey okaynownow let's have the body language and itincludes the facial expressions gesturesandpostures okay so this body languageparticularly the first one of facialexpressions can revealimportant information that isn'tconveyed verbally okay so facialexpressions are especially usefulbecause they can reveal hidden emotionsokay that contradicts uh statements madebythe speaker okay for example astudentmay deny knowledge of a problem whilealso displaying a fearful expression andguilty looking ground around okay so theposture and gestures are two other typesof body language that can providecommunication clues all right so finallywe have the sounds which is whichincludes the tone the volume and thespeech ratesor the speaker's voice okayso it also includes love fame or throatclearing you know when ilike that and then uh humming okayand can be different meanings okay soit's also worth notingthat listeners impressions areinfluenced byperfume or the other othersas well as the physical contact betweenthe speaker and the listener okayanother one is also the silence or theabsence of sound okay it can also be atype of nonverbal communication and ina facetoface conversation silence canconvey a lot of understanding or evenhurt feelings okay okay so imagine whenyou are talking to someone and you arenot answering it can conveythat you can either be hurt by what heor she said or you're just not in themood to talk to that person okay or inthe situationokaynow let's go to the types ofcommunication according to mode againwe have the visual communicationokay it is the typeofcommunication that use visuals of courseto convey information ormessages okay it includes the symbolsthe signs the image picturesmaps graphs parts and the light okayso it occupies anuh important place in anywhere you gofor example you know when you travelyou have to be familiar with the symbolsor the road signs okay because itcommunicates somethingit can communicate danger or i'm someaccidents okay so that can basecommunicationit can also you can also see some signswhen you go toa school and then it writes a schoolzone okay that conveys uh a meaningagain that you have to drive slowly oruh be extra careful aboutwhenever you go okay just observe at thepicturesat the signs and symbols and thatconveys a meaning that needs to beunderstoodokay so let's take a look at itsadvantages again and disadvantages so wejust listed here a fewand for the first oneuh it aids understanding okay so the useof imageokay to communicate and understand theworld around us has exploded as a resultof technological advancements okay soanother uhadvantage is it supports oralcommunication okay so when visual aidsare used oral communication improvesokay as when a studentan education studentisdoing his or her demo it can be notedthat he is not just speaking but he isalso providingsome visual aids okay some drawings orsome symbols some signs in order toimprove the message or tobe able to understand the messageokay or the lesson that he istransmitting to the listeners okay it isalso the same withwhat we are doing now okay weuh we add pictures or videos in ourpresentation okay let's now go to thedisadvantages and its first one isdesign issues okay so if a visual aid isnot properly designed for its intendeduse and audience then it can cause acommunication breakdown okayso another one is that it distracts fromthe message so when a visual aid is withthe wrong information then that cancause a destruction and the tract fromthe message the image is supposed toconveynowlet's have the types of communicationaccording to context so we have thefirst interpersonal communication so itcan be defined as a communicationwith oneself okay and that may includeselftalkacts of imagination and visualizationokay and it can also include recall andmemoryokayso uhintrapersonal communicationfrom the word intra it means within orinsideokay so interpersonal communicationokaycan be labeled as okay self talk orinner talk okay inner dialogue okaypsychologists uh call it weed name suchas self verbalization orselfstatement okayso nowlet's have this situation or an exampleof interpersonal communication okay soyou read on your phone that your friendsare going to have dinner at yourfavorite restaurant okay what comes tomind okay sights sounds and scents okaysomething special that happened the lasttime you were there okay do youcontemplate joining themdo you start to work out a plan ofgetting from your present location tothe restaurant okay do you send yourfriends a text asking if they want acompany okay until the moment you hitthe send button you are communicatingwith yourself okayokay just imagine that okay sookay so that is an example ofintrapersonal communicationokay now let's have the other type wehave the interpersonal communicationokay so it can beuh definedas thecommunicating betweenpersonsokayall right so to put it simplyuh interpersonal communication is theexchange of information among peopleokay so information of course caninclude thoughts ideas feelings and moreokay it can take both verballyor nonverbally and it can be developedcommunication and globalizationAbstractThe Globalization of CommunicationCommunication of countries with each other was verydifficult due to geographic reasons. globalization, eventhose distant from each other, are interlinked and influence each other, the effect of which is to produce achange in the structure of the economy, various culturesand societies of the world. Technologies used to communicate and its effects have been felt across the planet.In a nutshell, communicating globally means sendingand receiving information all around the Earth. Froma different perspective, globalization merely implies thecoalescence of different societies in matters of culture,politics, ethics, ideas and other areas fundamental tohuman societies. Multinational communication hasbecome easier and thus seems to develop closer bonds.The theory of cultural hybridization proposes that interacting cultures take from and absorb each other’s features, resulting in a hybrid form based on synergy. Thecase appears strongest when examining popular music.This viewpoint focuses on the exchange of cultural features and their absorption into another culture’s way ofdoing things. Analogously to hybrid formation in nature, which involves the exchange of genetic material, so,the theory goes, society’s practices are formed from a fusion of elements taken from multiple different cultures.Keywords: Communication, Globalization,Technology, InterlinkÖzÜlkelerin birbirleriyle iletişim kurması, geçmiş dönemlerde, coğrafi nedenlerle büyük zorluklar göstermekteydi. Küreselleşme, dünyanın birbirinden uzak kıtalarında olanların bile, birbiriyle bağlantı kurmasınısağlamıştır. Bu bağlantılar, toplumları ekonomik vekültürel olarak etkilemekte ve benzerlik yaratmaktadır.Son dönemlerde iletişim kurmak için kullanılan teknolojilerde büyük değişiklikler olduğu için, tüm dünyailetişim içine girdi ve küreselleşme gerçekleşti. Özetle,dünya çapında iletişim kurmak, yüzlerce yıldır devameden bir süreçtir. Günümüzde gelişen iletişim araçlarısayesinde, tüm dünyaya bilgi gönderip almak mümkünolmuştur. Bu da globalleşmeyi sağlamıştır.Diğer bir açıdan bakıldığında, küreselleşme, yalnızcafarklı toplumların kültür, siyaset, etik, fikir ve insantoplulukları için temel olan alanlardaki birlikteliğianlamına gelir. Böylece, küreselleşmenin, sonuçta kültürler arasındaki farklılıkları etkileyeceği ortaya çıkmaktadır. Bununla birlikte, bu tür konularda ortakbir zemin bulmak, insanların genel olarak kültürlerinipaylaşmalarına olanak sağladı. Küreselleşme, coğrafikonumlarına rağmen, kültürel farklılıkların, zamanıngeçişiyle niçin büyüdüğünü de açıklamaktadır. Günümüzde çok uluslu iletişim daha kolay hale geldi. Bunedenle mesafeler kısalmasa da, kurulan bağlar geliştive ülkeler adeta yakınlaştı. Kültürel hibridizasyon teorisi, etkileşimli kültürlerin, birbirlerinin özelliklerinialıp, bütünleştiğini ve birleşime dayanan bir melez formun ortaya çıkacağını öngörür. Buna en güçlü örnekpopüler müziktir. Doğada melez oluşumuna benzer şekilde, toplumda da genetik materyalin değişimini içeren, farklı kültürlerden alınan unsurların kaynaşmasıgerçekleşir.Anahtar Kelimeler: İletişim, Küreselleşme, Teknoloji,Birleşmek İletişimin KüreselleşmesiDr. Can Cemal CingiDr. Can Cemal Cingi, Anadolu Universty Faculty of Communication Sciences, ccc@anadolu.edu.trAnadolu UniversityJournal of Social SciencesAnadolu ÜniversitesiSosyal Bilimler DergisiBaşvuru Tarihi: 16.03.2018Kabul Tarihi: 16.08.201890 IntroductionThe way countries communicate with each other issubject to a change so profound that it could not havebeen envisaged in the past. In parallel with the rising tempo the urgency of assessing how cultures andsocieties are being affected by this transformation isincreasing. International Communication and Globalization supplies a much needed and welltimedoverview, with its writers examining how communication between countries has developed and layingout new ways to approach the study of the expandingmedia and communication studies area. The writersassess how much of an impact market relation, aderegulated milieu and technological progress havebeen having on Developing Countries whilst also investigating ethical practices in the companies responsible for worldwide communication. The collectionprovides valuable input into contemporary discussion of the media, technological progress and societaltransformation through its varying viewpoints onhow globalization and transnational communicationinteract. It is a collection that should be in the handsof anyone studying communication, the media andinternational relations (Mohammadi, 1997).For humans to coexist, communication fulfils an essential function, as indeed has always been the case. Aperson cannot go on living unless he or she can communicate. No evidence for speaking or written communication predates the coming of Man, and in facthumans existed for an extensive period before verbalcommunication finally arose. The earliest communication was a person talking to him or herself, knownas intrapersonal communication. Afterwards, by virtue of different people interacting more and more, wecan identify an interpersonal communication stage.However, the inadequacies of this phase led man tothink more broadly, expanding communication intogroup, organizational and mass communication categories (Mohammadi, 1997).The ubiquity of communication ensures its perpetualimpact on human affairs. Indeed, in its absence, humans would need to be selfsufficient and could neither transmit nor receive others’ ideas and civilizedlife as we know it would cease to exist. So far has communication progressed in the last few years, so greatlyhave international trade, investment and migrationmultiplied, that many now speak of a single, globalvillage, the “one world”. The way in which people arecoalescing into a unitary society where collaborationis the norm is the phenomenon of globalization (Mohammadi, 1997).We observe firstly that participation in this phenomenon is not voluntary but rather influenced in form bythe prevailing sociocultural, political and economicsituation. The multilayered interactions between issues affecting one region and those affecting the whole world, which are by their very nature composed ofcommunicative exchange, look set to alter both thesettings in which such communication occurs andindeed how such communication across cultures canoccur. What does it mean to talk of a place for communication between cultures? The answer is far fromclear. (Shokhina & Nishchev, 2009).What is globalizations?Globalization can be seen as a situation in whichparts of the world, even those distant from each other,are interlinked and influence each other, the effect ofwhich is to produce a change in the structure of theeconomy, various cultures and societies of the world.It has been a feature of the last halfcentury. The developing digital landscape and its omnipresence has undoubtedly facilitated the movement and distributionof information on a worldwide scale. Education, too,has been shaped by globalization, with the modelsto which educational institutions adhere becomingmore similar, the assessment of educational competence being a transnational matter and the widespread adoption of standardized student performanceoutcome measures (e.g. PISAOECD). These are justsome amongst many examples, which could be offered (Cornalia & Tirocchib, 2012, p.20602069).Scholte (Scholte, 1997, p.427452) mentions threeways to envisage what globalization actually means.First, we can see it as meaning increased interactionson national borders, in other words, globalizationand internationalization are identical. The frequencyof movement of goods, individuals, money, messagesand intellectual content is greater. A second conception invokes the notion of reduced impediments tomass trade, travel, communicative and financial interactions. In the first case, globalization is the mover of change; in the second it is a result of the otherchanges. Before globalization, societal relationshipsare seen as intimately related to particular locales, butsbd.anadolu.edu.tr 91  after globalization, transnational social phenomenacan shrink the differences imposed by geography.The role of the media and of technology in engendering these changes in a wider sense has been theobject of study of several scholars working on massmedia and in the sociological field. Here, faced withthe vast literature on the problem, we can only highlight a portion of those theories which stand out asmost worthy of discussion. In a nutshell, the mediahave participated in at least two phases in the realization of globalization. The first phase depended onthe arrival of television and other electronic media.The second phase grew from the development of telematics networks and the Internet  the beginnings ofan era of digitalized media. Viewed as a phenomenoninvolving communication, globalization as a can beseen to date from Marshall McLuhan’s seminal workdescribing the Global Village, one in which highlyevolved media communication, and in particular thedeployment of orbiting satellite transmitters, have ledto instantaneous communication even at a vast distance and this has given the whole world the characteristics more traditionally associated with a village.The Earth has become a single worldwide community(McLuhan, 1964).The expression, “global village” dates from the sixtiesand was invented by Marshall Mcluhan (who spearheaded much of the research into media) to discusshow electronic media affected society. Nowadays, theinterpretation of globalization is a polarized issue,with multiple viewpoints stemming from differenttheoretical orientations. However, the common themes within each view of globalization are of a movement towards greater closeness between nations onan economic, societal and political level and a viewby nations of themselves not simply as a sovereign nation but as working within a world framework (Mohammadi, 1997).A particularly usable definition of globalization hascome from the work of Lubbers and Koorevar (Lubbers & Koorevaar, 2000, p.724). They see the importance of geographical separation on how international economic, political and sociocultural ties areformed as decreasing in a globalized system.When a certain point is reached, the essential nature of the relationships thus formed has changed suchthat observers note a difference. This trans nationalization of the relationships and mutual influences isa source of both beneficial openings and frightenedresistance, a call to action and a call to arms.Proponents of globalization suggest the following benefits (Mohammadi, 1997): A reduction in the number of poor people across the world Technology becomes available in developingnations Peace is fostered The rights of juveniles and females are betterrespected People live longerGlobalization and CommunicationGlobalization has brought in its wake a profoundchange in the technologies used to communicateand its effects have been felt across the planet. In anutshell, communicating globally means sendingand receiving information all over the Earth, a process which has been underway for hundreds of years(Lubbers & Koorevaar, 2000, p.724). Ekeanyanwu(Ekeanyanwu, 2005) observed how communicatingworldwide entails collecting, spreading and examining analytically the news and knowledge producedacross the whole globe. Technological progress hasgone hand in hand with simpler, quicker, clearer andmore effective communications. (Lubbers & Koorevaar, 2000, p.724) A synergy is observed betweencommunication and technological development,such that new inventions, such as the Internet, whichare constantly emerging and, indeed, often converging, too, lead to entirely new ways for people to interact (Nelson, 2010, p.17).Thus, although the way we envisage globalizationmay differ, one vital point in common to many accounts is that enlarged communications are behindmany of the changes of a social nature occurring between nations. (Greig, 2002, p.225 243) The abundanttechnologies (fax, telephones, civil aviation, television and the Internet) have added to the ways in whichindividuals can communicate both at a local andcrosscultural level. (Greig, 2002, p.225 243; Holton,2000, p.140152)92 This change cannot be undone. The age of globalization is characterized by two underlying directionsin which cultures are being drawn. One is towardsthe alteration of customary ways of living for people.The other, by contrast, is towards the development ofways in which a culture can adapt to protect its essence. Globalization engenders vast controversy as aresult. Where cultures talk to each other, on occasionsconsensus may be reached on such matters as mutualunderstanding, valuing each other equally, right conduct and where our duties lie, but this is by no meansalways the case and such agreement may be hard toreach. An area of such disagreement occurs regardinghuman rights, thought by occidental academics to bea fundamental cornerstone of our system of values, infact appear quite inconsistent with how many easterncountries operate on a cultural and political level.Avoiding such issues means needing to find areas ofcommon interest where one of the cultures will not bethreatened in its customs and traditions by globalization. Thus, we advocate the identification of socalled“mutual contact” points. If such interactive nodesseemingly do not exist, mutual understanding andallowance must take their place. Humanity’s futureexistence hinges on how we manage to coexist, ourbehavior as it affects all of us. To flourish in peacefulharmony, this principle is just the essential first step(Shokhina & Nishchev, 2009).How does globalization affect the contemporaryworld? From a personal perspective, globalizationmerely implies the coalescence of different societiesin matters of culture, politics, ethics, ideas and otherareas fundamental to human societies. Thus, I concur with the view that globalization will ultimatelyefface the differences between cultures. Nonetheless,one result has been to find a common ground in suchmatters and thus allow people to promote the wellbeing of cultures in general. Globalization benefitsnations, which seek to expand their influence, andyet also explains why cultural differences seem togrow with the passage of time. While multinationalcommunication has become easier and thus seems todevelop closer bonds, in fact the very opposite is thecase (Shokhina & Nishchev, 2009).Ekeanyanwu (Ekeanyanwu, 2005) believes communications on a worldwide scale engender mutual understanding amongst members of different cultures.He illustrated this by pointing to how a network offoreign correspondents hired by the leading newsoutlets has brought a shared understanding of eachother’s ways of life across many of the world’s cultures. Such communications, it must be remembered,take on many different shapes and formats.McQuail categorized the formats thus (McQuail,2010):1. Transfer and broadcasting/publication of media and written materials in their entirety fromone national audience to another.2. Local media (cinema, music, television broadcasts, news reporting) are supplemented withimported items in those categories.3. Foreign media are altered to better fit anothercountry’s audience preferences.4. Items (e.g. sports reporting, advertisementsand pictures) either come from abroad or allude to events/people etc. abroad.5. News reports about another country.6. Some media intended to be shown internationally, e.g. Music TV, CNN International, BBCWorld, amongst others.Intercultural CommunicationA widely held viewpoint sees national and ethnic cultures as together constituting global culture, by whichis meant that you cannot have a national without aninternational culture. Even more pertinently, culturesare being acted upon and modified through globalization, so a culture becomes known beyond its original borders, socalled “cultural globalization”. Allhuman societies possess culture, and culture is whatmakes human life possible, but cultures differ in details. What culture means, though, has led workers indifferent academic fields to reach different conclusions. (Nelson, 2010, p.17)It is inherent in human societal evolution that crosscultural comparisons are made. No single nation,even if it seems the strongest politically and economically, possesses the means to address cultural andaesthetic needs on its own and without drawing on therich global cultural and spiritual patrimony handedsbd.anadolu.edu.tr 93  down from other races and nations. Our contemporary world moves steadily towards being globalized.In this respect, the discussion and debate about thehow and why of communication between countries isa part of life for both whole nations and their individual citizens (Shokhina & Nishchev, 2009).Yet how can intercultural communication be defined? Despite the intense and longlasting worldwideresearch effort focused on this area, definition remains at issue even now, and much remains debatableand controversial. So, the following seem the mostpertinent issues to be addressed:How does crosscultural communication function asa part of globalization? What effects on people canwe expect from globalization? Must cultural variation be always in mind when we set out to participatein globalization, or can it be achieved entirely per se?(McLuhan, 1964)The theory of cultural hybridization proposes that interacting cultures take from and absorb each other’sfeatures, resulting in a hybrid form based on synergy.The case appears strongest when examining religiousinteraction and popular music. This viewpoint focuses on the exchange of cultural features and their absorption into another culture’s way of doing things.Analogously to hybrid formation in nature, which involves the exchange of genetic material, so, the theorygoes, society’s practices are formed from a fusion ofelements taken from multiple different cultures (Holton, 2000, p.140152).ConclusionAfter recent developments in communication technologies, far distances come closer with an interaction of culture and cooperation. Intercultural interaction usually doesn’t affect local culture negatively butenriches it. But the natural result of this interactionis globalization. Nowadays almost all of the world isconnected with each other except some local primitive groups. The best and obvious globalization example is the food variety of countries. Pizza is not Italianand sushi is not Japanese anymore. Initially Mediterranean food, culture and traditions was a local uniformity, but now it is totally global.TV shows and serials are also very important in cultural globalization. As many serials are distributed allover the world, they created a parallel cultural andbehavioral structure, a sort of uniformity.The decrease of religion influence on societies, decreased the efficacy of culture and religion special habitsand behaviors, which finalizes at cultural hybridization of the country. The theory of cultural hybridization is very obvious in our country in a smaller scale.This is also another implement that leads to globalization.Although local music was very specific before; withthe effects of wide communication modalities, melodies become common and similar in all over theworld. It is possible to reach any music of any countryfrom a mobile phone including the notes, composerand singer information. The wide spread of music pieces is another sample of globalization.Very similar to hybridization of genes due to variousinteractions, cultural hybridization will be both thecause and result of globalization of communication.AbstractGlobalization makes international communication and business management easier and efficient for the world trade. we can expand business relations to all corners of the world. Globalization connects businesses and customers across the world. Companies open satellite offices to decrease production costs, forge relationships in new territories and access new consumer markets. The importance of communication in globalization is paramount because individuals from different countries, ethnicities, languages, cultural attitudes and other variations must understand one another and express themselves to another effectively in order to work together.The ability to communicate with people both inside and outside your organisation is a key characteristic of successful business builders in the world trade. Connecting with people on the other side of the world is now much easier than it was a few years ago. Satellites, fiberoptic cables and the internet make it effortless to share information with those in different time zones and locations. Global communication is directly affected by the process of globalization, and helps to increase business opportunities. Although globalization has many benefits for international communication and world trade. Globalization also have its side effects. These include some factors which are jobs insecurity, fluctuation in prices, fluctuation in currency, capital flows and so on.it is a process ihteraction an jntegration amopeople, companies, and governments of different nations,a process driven by international trade and investment andaided by informatin technology. This process has effects onthe environment, on culture, on political systems, oneconomic development and prosperity, and on humanphysical well—being in societies around the world.B. IMPACTS OF GLOBALIZATIOON COMMUNICATION1. Virtual Interaction2. Cultural Awareness in Speech3. Cultural Awareness in Body4. Language5. Time DifferencesC. IMPACTS OF GLOBALIZATIOON GLOBAL COMMUNICATION1. Availability of Information2. Business Conduct3. Social Awareness4. The ProblemCommunication and Globalization: A Longitudinal Analysis of the lntcrnationalTelecommunication NctworkGeorge A. Barnett and Joseph G.T. SalisburyDepartment of CommunicationState University ofNcw York at BuffaloBuffalo, New York 14261gbarnctt@acsu. buffalo .cduCopyright 1996 by George A. Barnett and Joseph G.T. SalisburyV. l/15/97ABSTRACTThis paper extends the theoretical arguments of the worldsystems perspective to theemerging postindustrial society. Using survey data gathered by AT&T and pub lishcd inthe World's Telephones (19781990) and data gathered by the lntcrnational Institute ofCommunication and published in TcleGcography (19911992), this pap er describes theprocess of globalization by examining the changes in the internationaltelecommunications network from 1978 to 1992. Ba<;cd on network analysis, the result<;indicate that the system wa<; relativ ely stable over this time period. 1n the lat e 1970s, thesystem wa<; composed of a number of subgroups. By 1980, it had coalesced into a sin glcgroup with the United States and the other western economic powers at the center and theEa<;tcrn block and less developed countries in the periphery. Over time, the networkslowly became denser, more centrali zed and more highly integrated. During the 1980s,the newly industrialized countries (NICs) of Ea<;t A'lia and the wealthi er Latin Americancountries moved from the periphery of the network toward the center. Beginnin g in 1989,the former members of the Soviet block also moved from the periphery toward the cent erof the system, supplanting the wealthier countries from Latin America. Th e Asian NICs,however, retained their scmipcriph cral position.Journal of WorldSystems ResearchTHEORYWith the recent advent of computcrba<;cd communication technologi es, communicationnetwork <; have become an important factor in global interaction. Th e world in theinforma tion age may be describ ed a<; being connected by a latti ce of netwo rks (Mulgan,1991 ). Telephones, for example, prov ide the ba<;ic connection for social interactionbetween individual<;, and the linkages both within and among nation s, producing whatDeutsch (1953) ha<; called "a web of nations." This is first time in history th at hum ansbeings arc able to realize the prospect of communica tion network<; which link everyone inthe world (Dizard, 1989). In fact, information technologies now provide the basicinfrastructure for an interdependent world, leading theorist.:; to characterize the world as a"global village" (McLuhan, 1966).The ongoing information revolution involving data storage, processing, transmitting andretrieval obviously affects all aspects of social, political and economic life. There arc twomajor characteristics of the information age or postindustrial society: the informationeconomy and transbordcr communication. While industrial society was based on th eproduction of goods, the information society is built on the creation and distribution ofinformation. The emergence of the information economy has led the expansion of theservice sector as compared to the manufacturing sector. Statistics about the informationeconomy arc striking. According to Bell (1973), a total of 39.5% of the workers were inthe service sectors ( e.g., transport, trade, insurance, banking, public administration,personal service) in the 1960s. The proportion had increased to 47.6% by 1973. Porat(1977) also described the emergence of the information economy noting that by the1970s,Journa I of WorldSystems Researchnear half of the U.S. work force can be classified as information workcrs. This trendha; continued.Frederick (1993) observed that worldwide telecommunication servic es during 1980sgrew about 800%. UNESCO reported, "that the total world information andcommunication economy in 1986 wa.:; $1,185 billion, about 8 to 9% of total world output,of which $515 billion wa.:; in the United States" (p. 58). Information ha; saturat ed everya.:;pcct of human life including international political, economic and social relations. Inother words , information is the resource of power for countri es' int eraction with eachother on the global stage.Globalization, the other major characteristic of the information age, is the proc ess ofstrengthening the worldwid e social relations which link distant localiti es in such a waythat local events arc shaped by circumstances at other places in the world (Giddens,1990). Thus, what happ ens in a local neighborhood is likely to be influ enced by factorsoperating at an indefinite distance away from that neighborhood it.:;clf. The incr ca.:;c intrans border communication ha; led to the rapid global diffusion of values, idea;,opinions, and technologies. Transbordcr communication ha; changed our conc epts oftime and space (Giddens, 1990). Technologies hav e eliminat ed national b oundarics andgeographic separation and created a global community (Cherry, 1977; Pool, 1990;Frederick, 1993).Wallcrst cin (1974) ha; argued that this proc ess ha; been occurring in the economicsphere since about 1500. Other world systems theorists (sec below) contend that theprocess of extending economic linkages to more distant geographical settings can betraced back at least to antiquity and even to the paleolithic era.Giddens (1990) argues that globalization is an inherent part of modernization. Oneconsequence of modernization is the incrca<;c in timespace compression which makesphysical distance incrca<;ingly less important in social relations. Globali zation stretchesthe boundaries of social interaction such that the connections between different socialcontexts or nations become networkedJournal of WorldSystems Researchacross the earth a<; a whole. Indeed, a<; Barnett and Choi (1995) found in their analysis ofthe international telecommunication network, physical location accounts for only arelatively small percentage of the structure of this network, while cultural factors, such a<;language, account for a much larger percentage.Along with the advancement of information technologies, the world can be divided intothe informationrich and the informationpoor countries. The global economy may becharacterized by an unequal exchange between powerful informationrich andinformationpoor countries (Barnett, Choi, Jacobson & Sun, 1993). This gap between the"haves " and the "havenots" in the global interaction is widening. In fact, a country'sinteraction patterns arc a<;sociatcd with its levels of economic and political development(Sun & Barnett, 1994). These relations may be understood in the context of worldsystcms theory (Wallcrstcin, 1976; Chirot & Hall, 1982; ChaseDunn, 1989; Knoke &BurmeisterMay, 1990; Cha<;cDunn & Grimes, 1995).Worldsystems theory seeks to analyze longterm social changes by combining the studyof societal level processes with the study of intcrsocictal relations. It challenges thea<;sumption that nations arc independ ent and that their development can be understoodwithout taking into account the systematic ways in which societies arc linked to oneanother in the context of a larger network of material and capital exchanges ( Cha<;c Dunn, 1989).Worldsystems theory focuses on the unequal distribution of power and goods in thecapitalist worldsystem. It argues that an identifiable social system exists beyond theboundaries of nations and states. This social system is the global economic system. Allcountries arc interrelated and linked in the world capitalist system and any change in anindividual country is a result of events in the worldsystem. Economic relationshipswithin the worldsystem arc politically enforced and, a<; such, arc relatively stable. Thisintegration is a result of the interdependence and dynamic interaction among nationstatesof uneven power (Cha<;cDunn, 1992).Journal of WorldSystems ResearchWorldsystems theory describes the global structure in terms of three types of structurallyequivalent components: the core, the periphery, and the semiperiphery. In modernhistory, economic relationships exist among these components. Peripheral societiesspecialize in the production and expo rt of laborintensive, lowwage, lowtechnologygoods desired by the core and the scmipcriphcry. In return, the core produces capitalintcnsive, highwage, hightechnology goods in order to export to the periphery andscmiperiphery. The scmipcriphery engages in both corelike activity (the exploiter), andperipherallike activities (the exploited) in the worldsystem (Shannon, 1989). Whilethere is some dispute regarding the cla..,sification of specific nations a.., core,scmiperipheral and peripheral (Smith & White, 1992), a country's membership in one ofthese categories tends to be stable. Core countries stay at the center of the world'seconomic system and the peripheral states remain peripheral. What little change there isinvolves the semipcriphcral societies, a.., they move toward the center or peripherydepending on global social, political and economic factors.The implications of worldsystems theory arc:1. The structural position of a country determines its potential for development andits interaction patterns;2. The structural position of a country is a result of its interactions with othercountries;3. There arc two kinds of scmipcriphery nations: a) core like nations which aredeveloping corelike dominance in the worldsystems; and b) periphery likenations which arc losing major dominance in the worldsystems;4. The relationships among the nations in the network are relatively stable, changingonly a.., the distribution of the modes of production change.Journal of WorldSystems ResearchTraditionally, worldsystems theory ha.., ignored the exchange of information among theworld's nations . Only recently ha.., it been discussed in these terms (Barnett, ct al., 1993;Cha..,cDunn & Hall, 1994). This paper extends the theoretical arguments of the worldsystcms perspective to the emerging postindustrial society.Clearly, the transition into an information ba..,cd economy could serve a.., a catalyst toreorgani ze the worldsystem provided that this transition involves changes in the modesof production and their patterns of ownership. These changes could incrca ... c competitionand conflic t, create new scarcities of necessary resources, result in dependenci es on newtypes of production and the need for collective savings and investment in long term, largescale projects which would alter the structure of the global economy (Cha<;cDunn &Hall, 1994). However, these changes have not occurred. The relations among th e world'snations which have been described by worldsystcmss analysis for th e industrial age(Snyder & Kick, 1979; Smith & White, 1992; Bollen, 1983) arc quit e similar for theemerging information age (Barnett, ct al., 1993). Ownership of the informationtechnologies is by the core, primarily the United States, Western Europe and Japan. Thus,worldsystems theory would argue for stability in the international telecommunicationnetwork.Galtung (1971) also describes international relations in structural terms. He proposes fourrules for defining the structure of international interaction (communication): 1)international communication is vertical between center and peripheral nations; 2)interaction between peripheral nations is missing; 3) multilateral int eraction involving allthree is missing; 4) interaction with the outside world is monopolized by the center. Inother words, "there is interaction along the spokes, from the periphery to the center hub;but not along the rim, from one periphery nation to another (Galtung, 1971, p. 97)."Pa<;t research ha<; characterized the international telecommunications sys tern a<; a singleinterconnected group (Barnett, ct al., 1993). At the center of this group arc the Englishspcaking countries, United StatesJourna I of WorldSystems Researchand the United Kingdom, a<; well a<; the wealthier western European countri es, German y,France, Italy, Switzerland, Spain and the Netherland<;. At the periphery arc third worldcountri es in the Pacific, Africa, A'lia and Latin America, a<; we ll a<;, former Ea<;tcrnblockcountries. Consistent with worldsystems theory (Wallcrstcin, 1976; Chirot & Hall, 1982;Knoke & Burmeist erMay, 1990), the more connected and central a country is in thenetwork the greater its Gross National Product per capita. Barnett, ct al. (1993) reportcorrelations a<; high a<; .56 betwe en a country's conncctcdn css and centrality in thenetwork and its GNP per capita .Further, Sun and Barnett (1994) report that a country's position in the internationaltelecommunication network is also an exce llent predictor of its level of democrati zation.Correlat ions ranged from .27 to .55 betwee n connectedness, centrality and integration andpoliti cal participa tion. Choi ( 1993) found a high degree of correspondence between thetelecommunications network and the struc ture of int ernational trade, mail flows and airtraffic .Barnett and Choi (1995) indicat e that the language spoken by the inhabitants of th eindividu al countries and its physical location accurately predict a nation's position in theinternati onal telecommunications network. Together, these two antecedent conditionsaccount for over 36% of the variance in the network's structure. Consistent with Galtung's(l 97l) structural theory of imperialism, they describe the network a.:; being like a star orhaving a radial structure with the United States near the origin or center of the network.Near the center is the hub. It is composed of most Western European nations. Emanatingfrom the hub arc three spokes composed of regional neighbors; one for Latin America, asecond for Ea.:;tcrn Europe and, a third for the Pacific, A.:;ia and the Middle Ea.:;t. Anation's distance from the hub (center) is indicative of how periph eral they are such thatthe scmipcriphcral nations arc closer to the hub.l. Journal of WorldSystems ResearchThe research reported in this paper addresses three questions: What is the structure of the worldsystem based upon international informationflows? How ha.:; this structure changed over time, simultaneously with the emergence ofthe information age? How have the positions of the semipcriphcral countri es changed during this sameperiod?Specifically, this paper describes the changes in the international telephone networkbetween 1978 and 1992. Given current trends in the information society such a.:;globalization, it would be expected that over this period of time the system wouldbecome denser, more tightly connected and more highly integrated. However, worldsystcms theory would predict that the relations among the nations in the internationalcommunication network would remain relatively stable over this short period of time inspite of changes in the transition into an information ba.:;cd economy. Indeed, what littlechange that might have occurred would be among the relations of those countriescharacterized a.:; semipcriphcral (Cha.:;eDunn & Hall, 1994). During the 1980s, thescmipcriphcrals were the newly industrial countries (NICs) of A.:;ia including, Korea,Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong , and the more highly developed nations of LatinAmerica including, Mexico, Brazil, Venezuela and Argentina . Additionally, the formersocialist countries of Ea.:;tcrn Europ e (i.e., Ea.:;t Germany, Poland, Hungary,Czechoslovakia and Russia) may be cla.:;sificd a.:; scmipcriph eral because they are at theperiphery of the capitalist worldsystem, in spite of their relatively high level of economicdevelopment (Knoke, & BurmeisterMay, 1990; Bergesen, 1992). The changes in therelative network positions of these three sets of semipcriphcrals will be described.METHODSThe changes in the structure of the international telecommunications may be examinedthrough network analysis. Network analysis is a set of research procedures for identifyingstructures in social systems ba.:;cdJournal of WorldSystems Researchon the relations among the system's components (Rogers & Kincaid, 1981; Richards &Barnett, 1993). The method may be generalized to describe the patterns ofcommunication among different social systems or nationstates. In this paper, we areconcerned with the changing relations among societies from the late 1970s until the early1990s. The specific relation of concern is the :frequency of communication among nationsmediated through telecommunications; for purposes of this research, the telephone,although these procedures may be extended to other forms of tclecommunicatio n (Barnett& Rice, 1985; Danowski & EdisonSwift, 1985). Network analysis ha. in the pa.t beenused to investigate the implications of worldsystems theory (Snyder & Kick, 1979;Bollen, 1983; Smith & White, 1992; Barnett, ct al., 1993).The ba.ic network data set is an n x n matrix S, where n equals the number of nodes inthe analysis. A node is the unit of analysis. It may be an individual or higher levelcomponent, such as an organization or a nation. Each cell, sij, indicates the strength ofthe relationship among nodes i and j. In communication research, this relationship isgenerally the :frequency of communication among the nodes. The frequency may berestricted to a particular topic, communication channel (the telephon e) or language. Forexample, sij could be the :frequency of communication over the telephone between i and jin German or French. S is symmetrical (sij = sji) when one is not concerned withdirection. In those instances when the source and receiver of the information aredifferentiated, S is asymmetrical (sij ne sji). In this case, nondirectional communicationamong nations using the telephone is examined.International Telephone. This paper analyzes the changes in the internationaltelecommunications network using 14 points in time, 1978 to 1992. The network isdescribed annually with the exception of 1984. The data were gathered from two sources.The data from 1978 to 1990 were collected as part of a selfreport survey by AT&T andpublished inJournal of WorldSystems Res earchThe World's Telephones (AT&T, 1990). The 1991 and 1992 data were collected by theInternational Institute of Communications and were published in TelcGeography (Staple,1992).AT&T a;ked representatives of countries to report the most frequently called countriesand the number of messages sent. Since not all respondents reported the numb er ofmessages, the analysis of the network is ba.:;cd only upon the most frequently calledcountries. The data were reported in rank order of the number of messages and weretreated in this way in the analysis. The ten most frequently called countri es were report ed.The link, were coded 10 for the most frequently called country, 9 for the second most, 8for the third, and so on.In the 1978 data only the three most frequent countries were reported. The numberincrea;ed to five for 1979. For 1980 to 1983 only the seven most frequent countries werereported. Between 1985 and 1990 the ten most frequently called countries were reported.A somewhat different set of countries responded to the survey each year. The samplesizes ranged from 85 in 1985 to 137 in 1979. Eliminated from the analysis were PuertoRico, The Virgin Islands, The Channel Islands and the various South African homelands.The United Kingdom did not report its frequencies of international telephone call.:; in theAT&T data sets. However, since the reported data were directional, it wa; added a; anode based on its rank a; a receiver of telephone messages. The final sample sizes foreach data set arc reported in Table 2.The 1991 and 1992 data were compiled by the International Institute of Communications(IIC) from an independent survey of telecommunications service providers (Staple,1992). In some ca;cs, traffic data were estimated ba.:;cd upon annual reports, governmentpublications and industry interviews. They also consulted the following publications:Yearbook of Statistics (ITU, Geneva, 1991 ); International Fcrnsprcchstatistik (Siemens,Munich, 1992); The World's Telephones January 1990, (AT&T, Indianapolis, IN, 1992);and The World's Telephones January 1989 (AT&T, Indianap olis, IN, 1990).Journal of WorldSystems ResearchThese data arc reported in MiTTMinutcs of Telecommunication Traffic. MiTT refers topaid minutes of public voice circuit traffic including operator a;sistcd calls. Dependingupon national conditions, MiTT may include voice and non voice (facsimile, slow speeddata) traffic (Staple & Mullins, 1989).Only 41 countries arc included in TclcGeography 1992 (1991 data), including allEuropean Common Market members. Missing arc most lesser developed nations andformer members of the Ea;tcrn Block. For example, South Africa is the only sampl emember from that continent and Hungary is the only representative from Eastern Europ e.The number of link; reported ranged from 8 to 20 with an average of 14.In 1992, the sample was expanded to 51. Other former Ea;tern Block countries (Russia,Poland and Czechoslovakia) were added a; were lesser developed countries from SouthAmerica (Pern and Columbia) and South Asia (Sri Lank.a, Bangladesh and Thailand). Thenumber oflinks ranged from 10 to 25 with an average of 15.In spite of the problems of variable number oflinks and sample size, research indicatesthat the data arc reliable (Barnett, ct al., 1993). Network. indicators (connectedness,centrality and integration) among 1982, 1986 and 1989 for 53 countries who reportedtheir international calls for all three points in time correlated between .77 and .99.Analysis ProceduresNEGOPY (Richards, 1989; Rice & Richards, 1985; Richards & Rice, 1981) was used toanalyze the telephone network. at each point in time. NEGOPY is a computer program forcommunication network analysis (Rogers & Kincaid, 1981) which examines the cohesionamong the nodes. It provides communication role indicators (e.g., group member, isolate,attached isolate, liaison or tree node Journa I of WorldSystems Researchrelations among the nodes including connectedness, centrality and integration, as well as,overall network. characteristics, such a; system density. The program wa; run with defaultparameters without specifying directionality. For 1991 and 1992, two MiTTs wererequired a; the minimum link strength.Centrality is the mean number oflinks required to reach all other nodes in a group, suchthat the lower the mean the more central the node. The use of NEGOPY's continuousmca;urc of centrality is consistent with recent advocates of worldsystems theory (Smith& White, 1992). Cha,cDunn (1989, p. 207) a;scrts that, "the core /periphery dimension isa continuous variable". This is somewhat at odds with Wallcrstcin's (1974) originalformulation of discrete boundaries between the core, scmipcriphery and peripherycountries. This implies there arc discontinuities in the world hierarchy, thus suggesting adiscontinuous mca;urc of centrality.NEGOPY's mca;urc of centrality docs not consider the strength oflinks (frequency ofcommunication) among nodes. It accounts only for the number of links required to reacheach of the other nodes in the network. An alternative is Bonacich's (1972) mca;urc ofcentrality. It considers the strength of the relationships among the nodes by taking theeigenvector of the largest eigenvalue of matrix S, standardized so that its length is equalto the eigenvalue. The loadings on this vector indicate a node's centrality. The algorithmfrom UCINET IV (Borgatti, Everett & Freeman, 1992) was employed to determin e thecountries' centrality for 1992.Connectedness is simply defined a; a node's number of links. Integration is theproportion of a focal node's links that arc connected to one another. Density is th e actualnumber oflinks divided by the number of possible links  (for nondir ectionaldata). Each of these measures indicates the state of the system (level of globalization) at asingle point in time.Journal of WorldSystems Researc hTo describe how the network is changing over time, the node level indicators can beaveraged and then longitudinal patterns observed. These trend.., may be verified throughregression analysis (indicator over time). Similar procedures were used by Danowski andEdisonSwift (l 985) to examine changes in an organization's telecommunication networkin response to a crisis. Due to the process of globalization, it is expected that the systemshould become denser and more highly integrated over time. That is, the social relations(links) within the worldwide telecommunications network should become strengthenedover time.RESULTSDescription ofNctworkTable l presents the connectedness, centrality and integration for the individua l countriesfor one point in time  1992. The results arc similar to those reported by Barnett, ct al.(1993) and Sun and Barnett (1994) except that there arc only 51 nodes. Missing from thedata arc large numbers oflcsscr developed countries. However, because there arc fewernodes the overall structur e is ca..,icr to discern.Journal of WorldSystems ResearchTABLE 1INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK  199 2lin ks r owUni ted States 48United Kingdom 44Germany 40France 37Italy 36Canada 31Switz e rland 25Netherland s 24Spain 23Austral i a 22Sweden 22mean1. 001. 081. 171. 231. 251. 351. 481. 501. 521. 541. 54centra li tystandard Bonacichd is tance e i gen in t egrati on 3 .11 6 95 . 53 . 3242. 716 34 . 67 . 36 7 2 . 315 30 . 61 . 400 2 .01 4 17 . 98 . 4171. 914 18 . 54 . 430 1. 413 73 . 93 . 439. 81 2 11 . 31 . 657. 712 9 .1 9 . 656. 611 7 . 73 . 553. 511 6 .0 8 . 563. 511 3 . 89 . 723Be l gium 22 1. 54 . 511 5 . 64 . 710J apan 21 1. 56 . 411 14 . 28 . 614Denma rk 18 1. 63 .11 0 2 . 48 . 791Norway 17 1. 65 . 010 3 . 89 . 809Taiwan (ROC) 16 1. 67 .09 0 6 . 03 . 792Sin gapo re 16 1. 67 . 090 1. 95 . 767Hong Kong 16 1. 67 . 090 6 . 78 . 758Aus tr ia 16 1. 67 . 090 5 . 10 . 892Po rt ugal 16 1. 67 . 090 2 . 38 . 758Turkey 15 1. 69 .1 90 4 . 23 . 819Russia 15 1. 69 .1 90 1.14 . 771Pola nd 15 1. 69 .190 2 . 38 . 905Chin a 14 1. 71 . 290 3 . 03 . 85 7Hungar y 14 1. 71 . 290 1. 27 . 85 7Czechoslovakia 14 1. 71 .290 1. 66 . 934Thai la nd 13 1. 73 . 391 1. 24 . 872South Korea 13 1. 73 . 39 1 7 . 70 . 87 2India 13 1. 73 .391 4 . 34 . 769Greece 13 1. 73 . 391 2. 67 . 872Brazil 13 1. 73 . 39 1 5 . 18 . 603Malaysia 12 1. 75 . 49 1 0 . 90 . 879I ndonesia 12 1. 75 . 491 0 . 75 . 803Is r ae l 12 1. 75 . 491 4 . 97 . 818Fin l and 12 1. 75 . 49 1 1. 03 . 939Mexi co 12 1. 75 . 491 41. 30 . 788Argentina 12 1. 75 . 49 1 1.1 8 . 636Ph i l i pp i nes 11 1. 77 . 59 1 7 . 46 . 782Luxembourg 11 1. 77 . 591 1. 04 1. 00 0Ireland 11 1. 77 . 59 1 3 . 76 . 873Venezue l a 10 1. 79 . 69 1 2 . 63 . 733Ne w Zea l and 9 1. 81 . 791 1. 02 944Sou t h Af r ica 9 1. 81 . 791 1. 35 . 917Pe r u 7 1. 85 . 992 2 . 73 . 667Columbi a 7 1. 85 . 992 5 . 67 . 905Saudi Ar abia 6 1. 88 1. 09 2 1. 35 . 733Iceland 5 1. 90 1. 192 0 . 26 1. 000Chil e 5 1. 90 1. 192 0 . 58 . 900Uruguay 3 1. 94 1. 393 0 . 08 1. 000mea n 16 . 9 1. 65 9 . 14 . 75 2s .d . . 208 17 . 57n = 49 (Sr i La nk a a nd Ba ngl ad esh are isol at es)t ota l links = 828The results from NEGOPY indicate that the network is compose of a single group withthe United States and the western economic powcrs Unitcd Kingdom, Germany, France,Italy and Canada at the center, and the LDC's (Uruguay, Peru, Columbia, Saudi Arabia,and Chile) at the periph ery (Sec Table 1 ). Japan is the lea..,t central of the core countries,perhaps due to its location in Ea..,t Asia. Sri Lanka and Ban gladesh arc not groupmembers. They may be cla.sificd a. attached isolates with links only to the Unit edKingdom. The system is relatively dense (.352), with about one in three possibleconnections present.Journa I of WorldSystems ResearchBonacich's mca.urc of centrality is also presented in Table 1. Worth noting arc thedifferences between the two centrality measures. NEGOPY's results arc Eurocentric inthe sense that it places the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Canada, Switz erland, theNetherlands and Spain at the center directly after the United States. Bonacich's mca.urcis centered more about the United States. Due to Canada's and Mexico's great frequencyof interaction with the United States, they arc ranked a. the second and third most centralcountries in the system followed by the core European countries. Japan is more central bythe Bonacich mca.urc, moving from the thirteenth to eighth most central, supplantingSwitzerland, the Netherland. and Spain. The other European nations arc mor e peripheral,while the Latin American countries arc somewhat more central.Overall, the two mca.urcs correlate .71 (F = 48.12, p < .001). Both mca.urcs correlatesignificantly with GDP per capita. The coefficients arc: .624 (F = 29.31, p < .001) forNEGOPY and .438 (F = 10.90, p < .001) for the Bonacich mca.urc.Figure 1 presents the twodimensional result. of a multidim ensional scaling of matrix S(the frequency of communication1992) obtained from the non cuclidian metric MDSalgorithm from UCINET IV (Borgatti, ct al., 1992). These two dimen sions account for70.1% of the variance in the network. At the center of the figure arc the United States,United Kingdom, Canada, Germany and France. Around the periphery arc Uruguay,Ireland, South Africa, Hungary, Turkey, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Philippines, Indonesia,Saudi Arabia, Columbia, Iceland, Sri Lanka and Banglad esh. Th ese countri es arcrelatively less economically developed than the countries at the center of the network andthus arc consistent with worldsystems theory. Worth noting is Japan's location amongthe peripheral Asian countri es.FIGURE 1INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK 1992METRIC MULTIDIMENSIONAL SCALINGI 11. 4 1AFRICAl. 02IIISWITZERLSTRIAI0.63IRELA IHETHERLAHDSIPORTUvEl.JEZUELAI0.24SAUDIIISRAEL IICELAHDCZECHOSLOKIA HOHG KOHGIHDOHESIAPOLAHD CH IHASOUTHHUH GARY ITALYHORWAY RUSSIAGREECE SPAWFRAHCEAUSTRALIAMEXICO U!HTED KIHGDOMIHDIA GERMAHY DEHMACAHADAU!HTED STATESMALAYSIACOLUMB HEW ZEALAHD BELGIUMCHILE SWED EHSIHGAPOREPERUTAIWAN PHILIPPINESFINLANDARGENTINA BRAZIL0.1 5 TURKEYSRI LANK JAPAN THAILAND LUXEMBOUSOUTH KOREA URUGUAYBANGLADESHII0.16 0.22 0.60 0 .9 71. 3 5Journa I of WorldSystems ResearchLongitudinal Result..,Overall, the network remained relatively stable over the period of investigation . In 1978,the network was composed of six groups with extensive connections among them. Thesix groups were: 1) Southwestern Pacific Islands and Australia; 2) Caribbean; 3) W cstcrnHemisphere and the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Englishsp eaking Africa, the Middleand India; 4) Scandinavia; 5) Europe, Frenchspeaking Africa and Pacific Islands; and 6)Ea..,t A..,ia. Also, the network includ ed 18 countries which NEGOPY identified a..,liaisons. There were 156 link.., ( 45% of a total of 344) among the six groups.A year later in 1979, the network coalesced into two interconn ected groups, one with 120countries and including most of the world (groups 1 through 5 from 1978) and anothermade up of 14 East and South A..,ian countries (group 6). Again, there were extensive tics(33 link...) among the two groups, mainly through core countries (United States, UnitedKingdom, Germany, Italy and Canada). Since 1980, however, the network ha.., consistedof a single group.Table 2 and Figure 2 present the density, and the average centrality and integration foreach of the 14 points in time  1978 to 1992. While these indicators show that thenetwork is changing, the rate of change is relatively slow.Journal of WorldSystems ResearchTABLE 2International Tele communi cat i on Neti wrk 1978  1992Date Centrality Integration Density N1978  2 . 46 . 555 . 042 1261 979 2.21 . 594 . 060 1371 980 2 .1 5 . 6 1 3 . 073 10 71981 2.06 . 672 . 1 00 10 11 982 2 .0 2 .630 .092 1111 983 2 .0 8 . 670 . 094 10 71 985 1. 84 . 7 10 . 1 7 3 831986 1. 85 . 700 . 1 66 861 98 7 1. 9 1 . 6 1 7 .1 40 1021988 1. 91 . 674 . 1 27 9 71989 1. 92 . 7 05 . 1 33 931 990 1. 88 . 674 . 1 44 7 81 99 1 1. 83 . 765 . 211 411 992 1. 65 . 752 . 3 52 5 1r2 0 . 775 . 66 4 . 66 2F 4 1. 25 23 . 75 23 . 48a 2 . 30 . 579 0 . 0 23b 0.0 42 0. 011 0. 01 5Dat a Source : 1978 1 990 AT&T, The World ' s Te l e p h o nes1991, 1992 II C, Te l eGeograph y 1992, 1 993 1. 1 9 7 8 wa s compo s ed of 6groups .2 . 19 79 was c ompos e d of 2 groups .Journal of WorldSystems Researchtries, Gennany, fmno.c,Italy, Switzerland, Spain and the \:ctherlan,t,. At the peripherywere the thin.I worldcmmtrie, in the Pacific. Africa. Asia and Latin America, a, well a,, fonner Easternblockco,mtries. Bctween the these tw<J categories were the semiperipheral countries.Jounw I of "ftfxldSystem, ResmrchOvertime, there was some mo,cmcnt among the scmipcriphcral c,mntrics. To examinethe changes in ccntr!llityofthcsc countries, the percentiles of their rnnks on centrality( ooconling to NEGOPY) were dctcnnincd arrmutlly between l 980 und l 992. They werenot dctc1mincd for 1978 and 1979 bccim~c the network was comp_,scd of more thim onegmup. Next. three grnup mean percentiles were calculated, one for the newly imb:L~trhtlconntics (NIC~) of A~ia (South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore), imothcr forwealthier cocmtrics of Latin America (Mexico, V cnczncla, Brazil and Argentina), and athinl for the fonncrmcmbcn; of the Soviet block (East Gcnnany, Poland, Hcmgmy,Czechoslovakia and RcL~sia ).It was necessary to examine the centrality of a gt\>Clfl of nations rather than those ofimlivil4~1l conntrics for two reasons. Fin;t, the classification of specific countries asscmipcriphcral is open to debate. Second, dam were not available for all inllivil4utlconntrics at each point in time. For example, there arc no data for East Gcnnany after1989 when it ceased to exist. As a resctlt. the imlivil4utl ccntralityrankings arc somewhatcmstablc and the tracking of single cocmtrics difficult. By ag,,;rcgating among cocmtricsthe overall patterns of change become easier to observe. The chimgcs in the ccntntlity forthese three gt\>ClflS arc presented in Figure J.Over time, the newly indJ:tstriaI conntrics of Asia became more central. In l 980, theiraverage percentile was .568. During the milkllc of the llcCad.c it had d1oppcd to between.455 and .:\75. By the end of the dcc8llc, it was about .20. The o,crall trend inllicatcsmovement from the periphery of the network toward the center (rsquarcd = .47, a= .5:\2,b = .02(i, F = 6.21, p < .05).Journal of WorldSystems ResearchThe Ea..,tern European countries also became more central during this period. Howe ver,their change occurred at a later point in time. During most of the decade, they were at th eperiphery of the network. Between 1980 and 1989 their average percentile rangedbetween .973 and .828. 1989 marked the breakup of the Soviet Union. Aft er this date,there wa.., rapid movement toward the center of the network a.., these countries becameintegrated into the world capitalist economy. In 1990, the perc entile centralit y dropped to.452, and by 1992, it had reached .382. The overall trend indicates movem ent from theperiphery of the network toward the center (rsquarcd = .50, a= 1.08, b = .038, F = 8.99,p < .05).The pattern for the Latin American scmipcriphcrals is more interesting. In the early1980s, these countries were relatively peripheral. Their percentile centrality wa.., .50 in1980 and 1981. It dropped to a range between .36 and .25 between 1982 and 1988,reaching its most central level, .2, in 1989. After this date, the Latin American countriesmoved toward the periphery. In 1991 and 1992, their percentile centralities were .73 and.74, respectively. An examination of Figure 3 suggests that these countries' positions inthe world's communication system wa.., supplanted by the new democracies ofEa..,tcrnEurope. The breakup of the Soviet Union seems to have provided the impetus toreposition the former Ea..,tcrn Block toward the center of the netwo rk a.., they formeddirect links to the core countries in W cstcrn Europe. At the same time the Latin Americancountries were forced to the periphery a.., the Ea..,tcrn European countries took over theirlocation in the network.DISCUSSIONThis paper raised three research questions. The discussion of the results of the dataanalysis will be organized to answer these questions. The first question a..,kcd, "What isthe structure of the worldsyst em ba..,cd upon international information flows?" Asdemonstrated by the 1992 data, the structure of the international telecommunicationsnetwork is consistent with worldsystems theory. The result.., indicate that the network iscomposed of a single group with the United States and the other W cstcrn economicpowers at the center and the lesser develope d countries at the periphery. A nation'scentrality in the network is significan tly correlated with its GDP per capita.Journal of WorldSystems ResearchThese findings arc similar to Smith and Whit e (1992) who examined commodity tradeflows and also found a singl e core/periphery dimension. At the center were United States,Western Europe and Japan. At the periphery were the lesser developed countries in LatinAmerica and Africa and between these two groups were nations generally classified asscmipcriphcral. The correlation of a country's position on the core/periphery dimensionwith it~ GNP per capita ranged from .76 to .81 depending on the year.The second question wa~, "How ha~ this structure changed over time , simultaneouslywith the emergence of the information age?" A~ predicted by worldsystems theory, theinternational telecommunication network was relatively stable over the period 19781992. The core, semipcriphcry and periphery were composed of the same countries,although there wa~ some movement among the scmipcripherals.Smith and White (1992) also report a high level of structural stability among the core,scmipcriphcry andpcriphcry for commodities between 1965 and 1980, in spite of thel 973 oil shock, the rise of the new international division of labor and the emergence of anumber of newly industrial countries. The changes that did occur included the expansionof the core and extensive movement among the scmipcriphcry .A~ suggested by Cha~cDunn and Hall (1994), technological changes in communicationhave facilitated the incorporation of smallscale systems into a single global network.This occurred prior to 1980. Further, a~ the world moved into the information age, thenetwork slowly became denser, more centraliz ed and more highly integrated. 1n otherwords, globalization wa~ taking place.The international telecommunication network became more centralized throughout thisperiod. This indicates that an increasing amount of informationJournal of WorldSystems Researchis flowing through the core countries rather than being exchanged directly among moreperipheral nations. This is consistent with Galtung's (1971) structural theory ofimperialism. It suggest~ that the core nations arc maintainin g and perhaps enhancing theirpositions of economic power a~ the modes of production change from industrial toinformational.While these findings arc intriguing, data quality problem~ prevent us from makingprecise predictions about the future of the network (Rictveld & Janssen, 1990). As aresult, only general trends in the data were identified. The poor quality of the dataprevented a more sophisticated analysis of the changes in the network over time . Thisanalysis wa~ conducted primarily with the rank orders of contacts for a limited number ofnodes. Furthermore, a somewhat different set of countries made up the data set at eachpoint in time . Thus, little can be said about the changes in network position of specificcountries. They can only be described by the grossest of patterns.Furthermore, these conclusions should be viewed with some caution. The number ofreported contacts varied over time. It grew from three countries in 1978, to five in 1979,seven in 1980 and ten in 1985. In 1991, it was almost fourteen and in 1992 each countryhad an average of fifteen links. The increase in the number of links may influence thefunctions which describe the changes in the network.Also, the number of countries in the analysis fell from highs of 126 and 137 (1978 &1979), to lows of 41 and 51 (1991 & 1992). A. the number of nodes in a sociomatrixdecreases, as with these data, the measure of connectedness tends to go up, the measureof integration tends to increase and the measure of centrality changes likewise. Thesetrends arc observed in the data, but they may be no more than an artifact of the variablesample size and might not be regarded as evidence of the social process of globalization.The 1991 data set consisted of only 41 countries and 1992 was composed of only 51nations. These countries were generally the developed or newly industrialized nationswho arc somewhat more tightly interconnected. Thus, these data may biasJourna I of WorldSystems Researchthe findings by suggesting that the overall network is denser than it might really be andthat the over time trend toward a denser, interconnected, centralized network is strongerthan may be the case. In other words, the evidence for globalization is weaker than theresults might suggest.While it would be ideal to construct a data set composed of the same countries over theentire fifteen year period, problems with sampling prevent the application of thisprocedure. So few countries arc members of the sample at all points in time that the datawould be insufficient to describe the international telecommunications system from aworldsystcmss perspective. For example, the United States is the only core countrypresent in the sample for all data points. No African country is present at each time point.The third question asked was, "How have the positions of the scmipcriphcral countrieschanged during this same period?" Through out the 1980s, the newly industriali zedcountries of A.ia became more central in the network. Throughout most of the decade,socialist Eastern Europe wa. at the periphery of the international telecommunicationsystem. However, at the end of the decade, they became more central. The LatinAmerican scmipcriphcrals became more central by the middle of the 1980s, but with thebreak up of the Soviet Block, their posi tion in the world communication system wa.supplan ted by the Eastern Europeans.These findings raise an additional question, "What is the relationship between thestructure of international communica tion and other patterns of relations among thecountries of the world? Snyder and Kick (1979) found that the nations of the world couldbe structurally differentiated into core, semiperiphery and periphery ba.ed on trade,military interventions, diplomatic relations and treaty memberships. While they usedblock modeling to differentiate the countries, the ones they labeled a. core were also themost central in our analysis. Those they labeled a. semipcriphery were moderat elycentral and likewise, those identified a. periphery were peripheral in the communicationnetwork. Again, Smith and White (1992) report similar finding s when examiningcommodity trade flows.Journal of WorldSystems ResearchBarnett and Wu (1995) examined international student exchanges for 1970 and 1989using data from UNESCO. Consistent with the results reported in this paper, they found asingle group differentiated by a center to periphery dimension for both years. The UnitedStates, Canada, United Kingdom, Germany and France were at the center and the LDC'sat the periphery. The correlation between centrality in the international education networkand GNP per capita for l 989 wa. .66 l. Change in the network wa. a result of changes inhistorical, economic and cultural factors.Kim and Barnett (1996) examined the structur e of international news flow and found italso could be described by a center to periphery dimension. At the center were theWestern industrial nations with the LDC's at the periphery. Along with economic factors,the structure wa. predicted by physical location, language and political freedom.In the most comprehensive analysis of the relationship between the telecommunicati onsnetwork and the patterns of other international relations, Choi (1993) examined trade, airtraffic and mail flows among nations. He found similar structures among all fournetworks. The correlations between the mca.urcs of ce ntrality were: .70 forcommunication and trade ; .57 for communication and transportation ; and, .52 forcommunication and mail.The similarity between the international communication network and other globalstructur es may facilitate speculation about the rca.ons behind the changes among therelative positions of scmipcriphcral nations. Clearly, telecommunications docs not occurin a vacuum. A. Ea.tcrn Europe opened for trade with the core economic powers inNo rth America, Western Europe and Japan, communication links were established andintensified. Capital investment wa. incrca.cd, perhaps at the expense of Latin America.Indeed, one of the factors behind the collapse of the Mexican economy in 1994 wa.capital flight. Perhaps, these moneys were relocated to Ea.tern Europe because the corefelt that this region represented a greater potential return on investment. To examine thishypothesis, the structure of internationalJourna I of WorldSystems Researchmonetary flows should be examined. It may be suggested that the changes in the relativepositions of Latin America and Eastern Europe in the telephone network parallel changesin international monetary flows.Prior research also suggests other rca'lons for the incrca'lc in centrality of the Ea'ltcrnEuropean countries. Cultural factors, such a'l language, account for a much largerpercentage of the variance in the structure of international communications. Culturally,Ea'ltcrn Europe is much more similar to the core countries than Latin America. Thus,with the political and structural barriers to communication removed, we would expect thelink'l among the European countries to grow stronger.There ha'l been much speculation in the worldsystems literature that the United Statcs'sposition a'l the core hcgcmon is declining (Wallcrstcin, 1993; Cha'lcDunn & Grimes,1995). An examination of international communication network fails to support thisposition. The United States ha'l remained the most central nation in the worldcommunications network. Further, one might consider the transition of the Americaneconomy from industrial to postindustrial a'l a manifestation of continued centrality. Byredefining the mode of production, such that the value of informational products arcworth more than industrial products and placing these products in the global mark etplac e,the United States is sustaining it'l hegemonic role in the world economic system.Recent writings examine the cyclical nature of certain worldsystems processes (Weber,1983; Cha'lcDunn & Grimes, 1995). Economic cycles result from the introduction ofnew sets of products, such a'l computers and telecommunications technologies. They arcintroduced and sell well, which expands the market and related employment andconsumer spending. Eventually, the market becomes saturated, sales drop, incomecontracts and workers arc laid off. Cycles of three lengths have been identified. 1) TheJuglar or normal business cycle which la'lts seven to ten years. 2) The Kuznets cycle is 20to 25 years long and may be considered a generational cycle of investment. 3) The thirdis the Kondraticff cycle, a 40 to 60 year cycle which results from the periodic rebuildin gof societal infra'ltructurcJourna I of WorldSystems Researchincorporating new technologies.The argument could be made that the informa tion revolution and it'l relat ed technologiesshould be the impetus to stimula te an upswing in any (or all) of the three cycles. Theseeconomic changes would manifest themselves a'l changes in the structure of the worldcommunication system. The frequency of communication among the system's nodeswould incrca'lc. The network would become denser and more highly integrated. Giventhat the technologies originate in the core countries, the system would also become morehighly centralized.This argument, however, cannot be tested at this time. There is insufficient data todetermine the existence of the proposed cycles. Data on the structure of thecommunications network exist<; for only fifteen years. This is less than the minimal timerequired to determine the presence of any of the cycles in the data (Arundale, 1980).Future research will continue to track the international telecommunication network asmore current data becomes available.The telecommunications network will be compared to other communications networkswhich have complex relationships to telecommunications. For example, the use of telex isdeclining a<; facsimiles sent over telephone lines replace the older communicationchannel. Indeed, recent research by Ahn and Barnett (1995) indicates that theinternational telex network ha<; become more sparse. The density among approximately200 countries dropped from .238 to .213 between 1981 and 1991. In addition, the telexnetwork ha<; become less centralized and connected by weak er (less frequent) links.Future research will continue to investigate other international network<; such a<; trade(Choi, 1993), transportation (air traffic), migration, mail (Choi, 1993), student exchanges(Barnett & Wu, 1995) and tourism to examine how changes in these networks compare toand impact the changes in the telecommunication network. As data become accessible,this research will be extended to the international exchange of video and perhaps mostimportantly, to computer network<; such a<; the Internet. Finally, the authors have recentlybegun to examine international monetary flows. These data can then be compared withtrade and communication data to help resolve a number of the questions posed in thispaper.Journal of WorldSystems ResearchNOTESl . Previous drafts of this paper have been presented to the Sunbelt Social NetworksConference /International Network of Social Network Analysts, Charleston, SC, February,1996 and the International Communication Association, Chicago, May, 1996. Theauthors would like to thank the reviewers of earlier drafts of this paper for their insightfulcomments.2. Informa tion workers arc those whose main job activity is the production, processing ordistribution of symbols (Porat, 1977).3. Telecommunication services come from that sector of the economy that processes anddisseminates information (Frederick, 1993). It includes computing services, dataprocessing, software, online data ba.:;cs, computer communications services, postalservices and telecommunications common carriers (telephone, telegraph and telefax).4. A group member is a node whose majority (50.l%) oflinks arc with other members ofa group. An attached isolate is a node with only a single link to another member in thenetwork. A liaison is a node that ha.:; most of its interactions with members of groups, butnot with members of any one group. They provide direct connections between the groupswhich they connect. A tree node is a member of a system who serves a.:; the primarybranch connecting the rest of the network to attached isolates. If a tree node wereremoved from the system, the nodcsit connects to the network would become isolates. What is communication andglobalization in purposivecommunication?PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATIONCommunication and GlobalizationGlobalization is a process ofinteraction and integration among thepeople, companies, and governmentsof different nations. A process drivenby international trade and investmentand aided by information technology. Both globalization and globalcommunication have changed theenvironmental, cultural, political andeconomic elements of the world.How important is communication inglobalization?In a globalized world, effectivecommunication is a necessity. Whenfriends, relatives, and colleagues needto reach all corners of the world, it iseasy to see the importance of globalcommunications in the world today. Global communications is not only theinteraction between two employeeswithin your organization.27 Apr 2015What is globalization in communication?The study of globalcommunication examines howinformation is exchanged acrossgeographical and social divides, aswell as how communication bothimpacts and is influenced by culture,politics, media, economies, health, andrelationships in the age of globalization.What are the effects of globalization inlanguage use and communication?However, with globalization allowinglanguages and their cultures tospread and dominate on a globalscale, it also leads to the extinction ofother languages and cultures. Languagecontributes to the formation of culture,such as through vocabulary, greetingsor humor. Language is in a sense thesubstance of culture.22 Jul 2011What communication means?a process by which information isexchanged between individualsthrough a common system ofsymbols, signs, or behavior thefunction of pheromones in insectcommunication also : exchange ofinformation. b : personal rapport a lackof communication between old andyoung persons.Why is communication being important?Being able to communicateeffectively is perhaps the mostimportant of all life skills. It is whatenables us to pass information to otherpeople, and to understand what is saidto us.  Communication, at its simplest,is the act of transferring information fromone place to another.Examples of Globalization Example 1 – CulturalGlobalization.  Example 2 – DiplomaticGlobalization.  Example 3 – Economic Globalization Example 4 – Automotive IndustryGlobalization.  Example 5 – Food IndustryGlobalization.  Example 6 – TechnologicalGlobalization.  Example 7 – Banking IndustryGlobalization.Chapter 2  COMMUNICATION AND GLOBALIZATION  Globalization is likened to the road. The world was used to be thought of as vast, unchartered, distant, mysterious, unfathomable, and staggering and no person had the slightest inkling how he or she could fathom it. Today globalization has changed the way people see the world. It has become a road people can tread to discover many possibilities although for some this unknown road can paint terror and fear.  As the human spirit in the past struggled to soar higher by probing unknown territories, climbing these highest peaks, and braving seemingly insurmountable storms, the warrior in every man and woman championed not only the feet and hands but also the mind and heart. Yes, globalization has finally been realized.  The term ‘globalization’ is widely used to define a spectrum of scientific, economic, linguistic, cultural, social, and political changes that have shaped the world over the past 50odd years. Since globalization is a complex and multifaceted phenomenon, it has been credited with a wide range of powers and effects. Its proponents claim that it is both ‘natural’ and an inevitable outcome of technological progress, and it can create positive economic and political convergences. Many perspectives on globalization see it as differentiated in its effects and reception, culturally driven, either premodern or postmodern, best captured by globalist or skeptical perspectives, and an equalizing phenomenon. However, the main goal to achieve here is how important globalization and communication can get in terms of learning and living.  LEARNING OUTCOMES At the end of the lesson, the students will have been able to: 1. define globalization; 2. discuss its origins and development; 3. explain its effects on communication; and, 4. argue for and against the positive effects of globalization on society.  MOTIVATION Pair up and choose an object which can best represent globalization. Explain how it can illustrate globalization.  12 INPUT As mentioned in the introduction, globalization is a complex phenomenon; it is the interactive coevolution of millions of technological, cultural, economic, social, and environmental trends at all conceivable spatiotemporal scales. Although economic in its structure, globalization is equally a political phenomenon, shaped by negotiations and interactions between institutions of transnational capital, nationstates, and international institutions. Its main driving forces are institutions of global capitalism – especially transnational corporations – but it also needs the firm hand of states to create enabling environments for it to take root. In the highly developed countries like the United States, Japan, the UK, and Germany, globalization is manifested. Globalization is the reason why there are Ford motors and cars of the US, Sony technology from Japan, House of Harrods from the UK, and Mercedes Benz and BMW straight from Germany. Developing countries such as the Philippines, Malaysia, and Thailand have respective prominent and quality products in the form of coffee, fruits, handicrafts, and among others which truly make them globally competitive and seen. We have to remember at all times that globalization is equated with economic growth and recognition.  Globalization has brought about immense changes in the lives of people nowadays. The oyster of the world is in everyone's hands because of the pervasive and potent powers of technology embedded in the growth and impact of the English language. With the everpresent and existing influences of science, medicine, and arts, the world has turned into one living village: borderless, robust, connected, and dynamic. Cultures, traditions, beliefs, religions, and languages find their way into the current stream of the World Wide Web or the Internet.  Language and society always go handinhand, for one cannot exist without the other. It has never been known to people that cultures will invariably linger and survive because of the core foundation lent by languages and people. The road to globalization is paved by all these composite elements reflected in the working qualities, dynamics, and significances of languages and cultures of diversified people all over the world.   Given the advantages and disadvantages of using social media like Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, Facebook, Reddit, and among others, learning other cultures, appreciating languages, communicating with many people, utilizing emails, engaging in teleconferencing, indulging in chatting, and uploading information via videos can be staggering, addicting, and empowering. This is the time and age wherein academic papers, and linguistic awareness may make definitive differences in the lives of educators, students, professionals, netizens, leaders, and researchers.  13  http://www.hvantagetechnologies.com/img/services/social.png  The Origins of Globalization Globalization has taken a long stride after its first potent spark in the heart of the once mighty Great Britain. It was Great Britain that started placing value on English. Who would have thought that Latin, Italian, Spanish, Greek, and French languages could be outshone and outweighed by the English language? Not even those famous linguists, semanticists, and theorists had predicted the emergence and popularity of English. All throughout these hundreds of years, the spread of English proved to be phenomenal and overwhelming. The Old World in the shape, form, and power of Great Britain seized and established territories and empires. It was through communication, transportation, and trade that globalization took its speed and presence. The great empires of Great Britain stretched from Europe to Africa. With the regal royalties among the kings and queens alongside their massive military strengths, English was indeed the force to reckon with. The reversal of power, influence, and reign occurred in the late 18th century and early 19th century when the New World, America, set sight of the golden opportunities. It was the undeniable display of grit, ambition, faith, innovation, and tenacity on the part of the Americans that paved the shift of supremacy and domination. America took pride in science, technology, medicine, and commerce. It was the vision and mission values of the Americans that also augmented the robustness and pervasiveness of English. Today, English is known to be the ‘lingua franca’ or a universal language which is evident in the areas of education, governance, communication, entertainment, and business.  14  http://belltimemagazine.ie/meetthenewcommunicationtoolsreadytoreplaceyouremail/  Globalization and Communication Globalization is also evidenced as a structural phenomenon of growing and interfacing interdependence among different countries of the world, for which the effects of a motion sensed at a distance has resulted in a stunning spectrum of social, economic, and cultural changes that have shaped the world more than half a decade. Consequently, this evolution was galvanized by the emergence of digital breakthroughs and scientific development. The details are wellpronounced in the continuing landscape of swift communications and more accessible and shareable information.  Effects of Globalization According to Nikolay Daney (2017), easy access to information is a major effect of the process of globalization. The World Health Organization, in its works focused on the cultural dimensions of globalization, has expressed the view that with the spread of commerce, trade, and businesses delivering Internet, satellite TV, and mobile services, the costs of such information technologies drop. He expressed that the decreased price makes it easier for people across the world to make use of the World Wide Web and the resources available.  In connection with education, there is now (what everybody takes delight in) edutainment. The Internet has been used to bring in edutainment – an integration of education and entertainment which is a fun way of teaching and learning.   15 Entrepreneurial Marvels Daney (2017) asserted that globalization had influenced global communication by implementing new techniques for business conduct among workers at international corporations. Longdistance travels are no longer necessary for business people should they require a meeting with a partner overseas. Internet technology makes it possible to exchange business information and conduct video conferences. Additionally, enhanced communication allows businesses to promote their products more efficiently on the international market. This significantly changed the business world. In his works on the matter, U.S. economist John Thompson concludes that the advanced means of communication have enabled international organizations to take faster and more adequate decisions in accordance with the change in economic, political or social climates in a particular region. For example, as described by Boonlert Supadhiloke, a professor of communication in Bangkok University, Thaibased international technology corporations use advanced communications to respond to the growing demand for Thaimade products.  On the other hand, Metro Iloilo is one of the premier hubs in terms of Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) industry or offshore outsourcing these days. In fact, there are American companies expanding their horizons by putting up branches all over the city. Moreover, some Hagwon or Korean English Academies in Iloilo have gone online in place of tutorials, learning sessions, and classes. How illuminating the concept that Ilonggos are at par with the world in ecommerce, ebusiness, and BPOs!  Increase in Social Awareness It has been discussed in the relevant article, entitled “The Effects of Globalization on Global Communication”, that the availability of information, which is a direct effect of the development of global communication systems, has led to an increased social awareness of people across the world. Information technology and networks enable them to share opinions, views, work on projects and research different areas. These are among the main reasons why the process of globalization is creating a sense of a global society. For example, through the use of communication, many students from the developing countries enroll in university degrees in the developed world. Education is only a single sector of the social awareness. Other effects, like social determination, have also occurred  the political unrest in Tunisia at the beginning of 2011 had been inspired by opinions and political considerations shared over the social networks available on the web. Furthermore, Central Philippine University (CPU) ensures the remarkable powerbase and expands the definitive scope of its International Programs Office that fosters different linkages with other universities. Engendering better ties and pedagogical affinities with international and goaldirected academic institutions is one of the noblest and commendable  16 achievements CPU continues to aspire for. Making use of all mass media in keeping the Centralian spirit alive has proven once and for all that one’s declarative knowledge is power. In fact, there are many Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean, and Japanese students who come to study under intensive and extensive programs. The concerted effort is made possible because of linkages and collaborations. This simply shows how influential the use and usage of social media with the aid of the Internet is.  Love in Two Worlds and Inspiration via Cyber Space Modern and sophisticated transportation by land, sea, and sky is no longer a farfetched dream to many. The truth is there are a number of ferry terminals for fast crafts that appear like firstrate terminals found at the airport. Such is a clear manifestation that globalization is at work. The same scenario goes for education programs that enable teachers and educators become part of the cultural immersion and professional growth. Central Philippine University annually sends teachers as exchange faculty to several Korean universities. One good narrative about love in two worlds is that there was once a particular member of the exchange program team from the Department of Languages, Mass Communication, and Humanities who had this unforgettable romance with the loving and caring female Korean. That is indeed a unique byproduct of globalization, too, right?  On the contrary, using Cyber Space as part of more intriguing human relationships is very much ubiquitous in this modern age. In fact, students and teachers alike find their amazing inspiration on the Internet. To illustrate, working on poems, writing essays, and conducting researches or studies can take colors, hues, and textures out of the magically mindbending streaming of data, details, and information uploaded and downloaded through the net. Communication has never been better in this highly competitive, purposedriven, and globalized world!  The Challenge Despite the wide range and ongoing progress, global communication fails to reach many people in all corners of the world. One research conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO) indicated that at least 70 percent of the majority of people in Africa have never made a single phone call or accessed the Internet. It stressed out the urgency for a much deeper or more thorough use of communication technologies as part and parcel of the globalization process.  In fact, the same narrative holds true for the provinces of Iloilo. Farflung areas or remote barrios in many towns do not have even commercial electric power for television and radio sets. The lack of social awareness and disconnectedness can be disheartening       As technology advances, the world is both getting larger and smaller. Today we are able to communicate with people across the globe at the touch of a button. While globalization, or communication between nations beyond their borders, is an old concept, with the onset of new technology globalization is impacting the ways we communicate and learn in fascinating ways. We are expanding our understanding of fellowship and as we become more connected, we are deepening our educational experiences. The rise in the use of the internet in particular has been incredibly instrumental in improving the ways in which we connect with one another.Because of technologies like the internet, we have the opportunity to view diverse perspectives that were outside of our scope before. We are able to fully connect with someone who is thousands of miles away in real time and the effects are profound. Take two children taking an online math course together; a child from Texas and a child from Japan for example. These two students are able to share not only the content of the math class but their cultural perspectives as well. This additional component is no small detail. That kind of exchange opens up your sense of what parts of the world are accessible to you, which in turn lays the foundation for an evolved worldview.Another wonderful benefit of globalization is that the world becomes more accessible and equitable in general. Search engines, Ebooks, online courses and other virtual education give more people the ability to learn about subjects that used to require a certain level of income or social positioning. Information isn’t as restricted and it allows us the opportunity not only to receive information but to enter into academic spaces and contribute. Globalization creates a space for ideas to transcend borders and social strata.When you combine the access to new perspectives with access to previously highly safeguarded materials, what you get is the opportunity to create brand new worlds. When you can see the world through new eyes, you have the opportunity to innovate and really develop new educational opportunities, rethink how and why we communicate and create new systems to do both. We are able to create a more equitable world when we are all able to come to the proverbial table and share ideas.how communication and globalization aretwo concepts or two phenomena that arereally inextricably linkedto each other and are inseparableespecially due to the advent oftechnologyin the 21st century so first of all letus characterizewhat globalization is okay sohere we see that globalization isfirstlyinterconnectedness so even for examplewhen you have someone to talk to at theother side of the world you canby all means talk to them this isbecausethere are lots of communication channelsnowadays powered by technology that wecould actuallyuh do what used to be impossibleway back right so we are not limitedby geographical distance we're notlimited byrestrictions like physical restrictionswe're notactually bounded by space and timebecause now we can be connectedum to one person to one organization toone institution and even toone nation okay in the internationalcommunityso we see that interconnectedness meansthat we arejoined we are related to we are linkedum within the world that we're moving ineven when we just stay at home forexampleokay so we have this sense of beingconnected one way or the otherlike professionally commerciallypersonallyright we build relationships we nurturethese relationshipsand these interconnectedness allows usto actuallyaccess information and actually bringsus to the information highwayand this allows you know sharing ofculture resharing of cultureyou know being able to understanddifferent perspectives from differentnations fromdifferent settings and allows us tomove even when we're not moving at allso i hope you're getting what i meansecondly globalization isinterdependencywhat do we mean by this we see that inthe globalized communitywe are very much intertwined in terms ofour economiesand our economies are veryinterdependentyou know with each other and this isprimarilydue to uh international tradeand you know capitalism this is poweredby the technological advancement that wehave nowadaysso importation exportation is a featureof globalizationso we see how the flow of informationthe flow of businessesand the flow of capital or goods orwhatever you have like virtuallyeverything are moving from yourcommunity to the international communityand from the international communityback to your own communityso this is all because of theinterdependency that's going onmade possible by globalization right solet us proceedto a simple or a very brief history ofglobalization and communication okayin the 1930s uh therewas the telegraph okay and the telegraphwas an electric communication viatransatlantic underwater cable so if youwill imagine like how bloody it was backthen rightso on the telegraph was like thefirst siguro the very first umtechnological advancement that they hadback in the 1830s so come eight andforty we had washington and baltimoreconnectedin the night in the 1865 britain indiaconnected1870s europe linked to the larger partsof the world and1924 king george v sent a messageto himself that actually circulated theglobe in 80 secondsso way back then it was actuallysomething that is amazing alreadyand we would never have and they wouldhave never imaginedsomething like the cell phones nowadayssomething like the hologram nowadaysrightall right so during the 19th centurythere was the emergence of global newsnetworks already so thisthis was made possible by satellites andother technologies of that effectokay and there were three things thathappened okay there were already newsover large territoriesbecause news had to be disseminatedmanually and traditionally now newswas disseminated over large territoriesat once due to these global newsnetworksand of course the news were global inscope rather than localand then it reached obviously bigaudience due tothese things right and then we've gotelectromagnetic wavesand there was the immersions oforganizationswas the mission to disseminate radiofrequency sothis was the birth of the radios okaywhich used frequenciesthrough air so when they're on air theycouldactually be they could reach more peopleand they could actually disseminate moreinformationto larger audiences all around tothe locality and all around the globenow let's see what we havenow okay we've got all the gadgets thatwe need we've got laptops our desktopswe've got phones mobile phoneswe've got wifi we've got everythingokay that could help us touch the worldyeah so we've got all these thingsnowadays that make communication andglobalization morepossible and even more sophisticated andeven more progressivenow what are the dimensions ofglobalizationwe are affected by globalization and thedifferent dimensions of our livesand these effects are really huge okayso let's take a look ateach of these dimensions okay so we'vegot culturalso cultural uh dimensions uh when wetalk about cultural dimensions of coursethis is about world culturehow one culture is being transferred orshared fromone part of the globe to another part ofthe globe take a look at kpop forexampleum kpop is very popular in the worldandespecially among among filipinos rightthere are lots of kpopfans around you know the world and thephilippinesso uh this is what formsglobal images you know we've got globalaudiences alreadyand we've got value spreading right fromone pointto another point all right and thenwe've got new imperialism as welland media imperialism so umabout culture we see how media actuallybecomes the prime mover of sharing andresharing of courseculture shaping and reshaping of culturewhat media saysfor example would dictate a big part ofwhat the culture isto us so for example if media sayswhat's beautifulis white okay we say that okay soblack is ugly right and because there'sa lot ofmedia that says that instills to us thatokay you've got touse this whitening product you've got touse thisslimming product it actually kind ofdictates to our psyche thatthat culturally what is beautiful isskinny what is beautiful is white whenwe are subconsciously consuming thatidea of cultureokay through media so again it's not atallgood okay globalization hasalso bad effects to us and as consumersof globalization we have to culturallydistinguishwhat we have to assess and evaluate interms of our values ourspreading okay the media okay we have tobevery critical about it now next issociallyso um this dimension has something to dowith globalsocial relations so for example mobilityfor example tourism and a sense ofglobal communityright so right now we have this uhmindset that we're not only living in acountry we're living inan international community and we've gotthe sense of being a world citizenrather than just a citizen of yourcountry next up is politicaldimension of globalization so in thepolitical dimension we've got here yoursupranational organization so when wesaysupernational organizations these arethe supranationals so meaningbeyond national supra meaning beyond sobeyond nationalso if we've got our own government sobeyond that we've got supra governmentsor super organizationsone of which is united nations forexample okay so you've gotwto you've got the european union etcetera et ceteraso the supra national governanceum serves as our world police forexampleor the regionalization agent for exampleor cosmopolitanism for exampleokay so all these things are politicalthis has something to do with leadershipthis is something to do withum subordination this is something to dowithhow you you keep peaceum among between and amongst countriesand whatnotokay so next up iseconomic so the economic dimension ofglobalizationi'm sorry the economic dimension ofglobalizationactually has something to do with ourcommon discourseokay and this is uh now theour transactions like trading uhcorporations instant money transfersinstant money transactionworldwide okay um the global businessesthe globalum what industries and eventhe not so good part like the globalexploitation of laborso for example one pressing issue herein the philippines is thatwe are actually one of the richestsource ofoutsourcing labor andof outsourcing companies because theysay they say they believe that thephilippine labor ischeap which is kind of true so umthere are exploitation of labor that'sgoing on andum i think we should we should dosomething about that butthis is actually a big opportunity forus to seei like why these things are happeningand whatmakes these things happen okay soglobalization againmakes these things possible it involvesthe golden and not so goodthings okay so these are the dimensionsof globalization actually i justdiscussedit on an overview so there's so manyuh nitty gritties of it that we can seein our daily lives and we can witnessourselvesso it's time for you to reflect silentlylikehow these dimensions of globalizationactuallyaffect you personally professionallyacademicallyetc etc okay so yeah go ahead andsilently reflect on that or even afterwatching this lectureat this point i would like us to ponderoverwhat is common among these dimensionsokaynow what is common among thesedimensions of globalizationthe answer is they all depend on globalcommunication infrastructure i beteverybody would agree if i say thatthese dimensions would not be possiblewithoutglobal communication infrastructurebecause thisactually makes everything possible let'sgo on to the impact of globalizationon communication first impact ofglobalization on communication numberone virtual interaction as i've alreadymentioned earlierwe're not bounded by geographicallocations anymoreor time and space because we canactually interactvirtually what we're doing right now isvirtual interaction what we're doing inour synchronous sessionsis virtual interaction and what you'redoingon social media is virtual interactionso umeverything is really made possible byglobalizationand communication right number twocultural awarenessagain and again and again due toglobalizationand communication cultural diversitiesare actually much more highlightedand appreciated andthis is making us more awareof who we're talking to what we'retalking about and all the variousum contexts that there are okay in termsof communicatingnow three time differences okay ofcourse it has an impact on our timeit's actually one of the reasons whythere are people who are workingat night and there are people who areactually studying at night and um etcetcand of course other aspects so a lot ofother aspects and if you can think ofother aspects that you may want to shareplease raise them okay in oursynchronous sessions okaynow um lastly because i don't want tomake thisum lecture very very long um lastlywe'vegot uses of social media by richmond weall know that social mediais one of the biggest tools and featuresof the 21st century communication and isone of the prime movers of globalizationrightwe are becoming more and more of aglobal community because of thethe rise of social media that we havenowadays okayso according to richmond there are umseven uses of social media and these arecommunicationcost support competitions communicationresearch connectionclient service and community serviceso um just just very very brief becausei know that these arevery very easy to understand okay socommunicationagain if you've got um if you've gotrelatives abroad for example you canstill communicate with themeven when you are very very uh even whenyou are miles apartokay um and other sort of thingsuh you can also use thisum in school okay communication to yourclassmates to your profto the school itself okay next so causesupportwhen you have an advocacy that yousupport when youare trying to put forward a cause whenyou're trying to umsupport an organization now competitionsfor examplephoto liking contestsright for example you've got sayingcompetitions onlineany online competition next iscommunication researchso uh we can also do surveys onlinewe can also use social media as sourceofour data for research and for our papersfor our study rightconnection we can actually feelconnected to everyone when we're onlineright that's why somehow psychologicallywe become addicted to being online intousing social media becausewe think we feel that we can connect tothe world and we are updatedand we are on the trend and you knowthere's someone that can read our postand that canyou know connect to us and stuff likeCommunication, they say, is the key to maintain global peace and equilibrium. However, peace and equilibrium seem farfetched in the prevailing crisis situation. As Covid19 ravages the world, people are increasingly getting to comprehend the sheer importance of communication and resultant collaborations.Whether it is the development of vaccines and medicines to combat the dreaded virus or its possible control, humanity is decidedly dependent on international and intercultural communication. Concomitantly, it becomes critically important to examine the factors that affect the flow of communication between individuals, communities and nations.While we are at it, let us carefully analyze the primary factors:Language: Language is probably the most important element in the communication chain. To put it simply, language is the medium through which the group speaking that particular language expresses its culture. A cursory glance at world history will prove that language has not only been the biggest unifying human force, but it has been the largest bone of contention as well. To make it easier to have global collaborations, it is essential to have one connecting language. Let us take an example to understand this. Internationally, English has been a great unifying force between countries.Ethnicity: In a multiethnic world, ethnicity is as important as language. Often misunderstandings crop up from ethnic differences. These misunderstandings in turn hamper the communication chain. We can take a very easy example to illustrate this point. India, which has multiple ethnic identities, often goes through ethnic churnings thereby destabilizing the communication chain. This is equally true for communications that happen between two different ethnic communities from two different countries. The primary way to deal with ethnic differences is to forge a human bond that respects the differences but tries to create a unifying factor that is beneficial to all concerned.National Identities: The concept of nationhood is a very complicated proposition. The concept of national pride at times inundates other humane considerations. We can take a very pertinent example to illustrate this point. The current military spat between India and China has created an often overzealous national consciousness in both India and China that threatens common sense. Such spats overwhelm the necessity to have communication and subsequent collaborations. From time immemorial, the group consciousness associated with nationhood has been the reason for multiple wars. The Nazi dispensation in Germany used ultranational pride to trample human rights and hence make communication secondary. The best way to make way through this negative national consciousness is to develop the penchant for having rational humane considerations that doesn’t bank on jingoism.Religious Identities: History has been witness to the fact that religion has played the role of the biggest human divisive force. If we take a sneak peek into the history of humanity as a whole, we would be able to find out that religion has been the single largest cause of conflicts. Whether we talk about the crusades or we deliberate about the current religious unrests, religion has fomented the maximum trouble among fellow human beings. To tackle it, the best way is to have a personal take on religion. Human beings need to appreciate that differences in religious orientations are natural and the same should not deter people from having communication and forging collaborations.Social Class: No wonder that social positioning and economic status of people put them into certain brackets. This artificial division again creates rifts between the haves and havenots thereby leading to a breakage in the communication chain. All throughout the world, the existence of different social classes is a crude reality. Let us take an Indian example. As the pandemic keeps getting worse, the biggest victims have been the migrant labourers. The reason why this class has taken the toll is their economic and social status. The best way to deal with this differentiation is to reduce the gap between the social classes.Gender: Let us now come to gender. As basic as it is, the reality remains that gender can also become an impediment for the flow of communication at times. The difference between genders across the world is very real. In India, the transgender community has to face social ostracism all the time. The communication channel in this case is broken. There is hardly any discourse on the community. The best way to deal with this stalemate is to accept that gender can’t be the basis of any discrimination. However, like many other things, it is easier said than done.Age: Across societies, generational shifts can cause a lot of miscommunication. As the world changes, meanings and communication channels change. At times, older people can’t cope with these changes, which in turn creates an imbalance in communication. At other times, the younger generation fails to understand the frame of reference of the older people thereby creating an unnecessary rift. Mutual acceptance and sustained dialogues constitute the only way to get out of this imbroglio.While there are multiple other factors, the ones mentioned above are the biggest factors that either propel or inhibit the flow of global communication in the current context. As communication students, it is extremely important to be aware about the factors. This is exactly where the role of institutionalized media education comes in handy. International Communication is one area that a lot of media institutions are emphasizing upon these days in order to convert the students into comprehensive media professionals.MODULE 2:COMMUNICATION AND GLOBALIZATIONOverview:This  module  talks  about  intercultural  communication  andglobalization.  It  defines  globalization  and  its  types,  the  strategies  tobecome  effective  communicator,  ethics  across  cultures,  communicationapproach  to  intercultural  communication,  barriers  to  interculturalcommunication,  and  characteristics  of  intercultural  communication.Communication  has  since  been  increasingly  global,  blurring  nationalboundaries. The ability to communicate effectively in a global context, ageneral  understanding  of  the  differences  in  conducting  communicationfrom one country to another or from one culture to another helps avoidmiscommunication. People’s beliefs and experiences influence their viewof the world and the values, beliefs, and behavior patterns assumed to begood. Objective:Explain how cultural and global issues affect communication Appreciate the impact of communication on society and the worldWhat is GLOBALIZATION?It is the communication and assimilation among individuals, ethnicities,race, institutions, governments of various nations supported by technology andcompelled by international trade. Due to globalization, the more  you becomeexposed  to  diversity  the  valuing  of  uniqueness  of  differences  in  genderpreference, color, age, religion, affiliation, ethnicity, education, social, economicstatus, and political beliefs.Strategies to Become Effective CommunicatorReview communication principles. Analyze the message receiver Be open to accepting other’s culture. Learn about cultures and apply what is learned. Consider language needsEthics Across Cultures (Kale, 1997) ❖❖Ethical communicators address people of other cultures with the same respect that they would like to receive themselves. Intercultural communicators should not demean or belittle the cultural identity of others through verbal or nonverbal communication.❖Ethical communicators seek to describe the world as they perceive it as accurately as possible. What is perceived to be the truth may vary from one culture to another, truth issocially constructed. This principle means that ethical communicators do not deliberately mislead or deceive.❖ Ethical communicators encourage people of other cultures to express themselves in their uniqueness. This principle respects the right of people to expression regardless of how popular or unpopular their ideas may be. ❖ Ethical communicators strive for identification with people of other cultures. Intercultural communicators should emphasize the commonalities of cultural beliefs and values rather than their differences. What is Communication Skills?Individuals must be competent in verbal and nonverbal behaviors. Intercultural communication skills require message skills, behavioral flexibility, interaction management, and social skills. What is Psychological Adjustment?Effective Communicators must be able to acclimate to new environments. They must beable to handle the feelings of “culture shock” such as frustration, stress, and alienation in ambiguous situations caused by new environments. Cultural Awareness  To be competent in intercultural communication, individuals must understand the social customs and the social system of the host culture. Understanding how people think and behave is essential for effective communication with them. Barriers to Intercultural Communication  Anxiety  When you are anxious because of not knowing what you are expected to do, it is onlynatural to focus on that feeling and not be totally present in the communication transaction. Assuming Similarity instead of Differences  Each culture is different and unique to some degree. Boucher (2004), as stated by Jandt (2010), has shown how cultures differ as to whom it is appropriate to display emotions. If you assume the display of emotions is similar to your culture, you might seepeople of different cultures in certain circumstances as lacking emotions inappropriately.Ethnocentrism  It is negatively judging aspects of another culture by the standards of one’s own culture. Stereotyping  The term “stereotype” is the broader term commonly used to refer to negative or positive judgments made about individuals based on any observable or believed group membership. Prejudice  Prejudice refers to the irrational dislike or hatred of a particular group, race, religion, or sexual orientation (Rothenerg, 1992). Persons in the group are viewed not in terms oftheir individual merit but according to the superficial characteristics that make them part of the group.Characteristics of Intercultural Communication Motivation  The desire to communicate successfully with strangers is an important start. For example, people high in willingness to communicate with people from other cultures report a greater number of friends from different backgrounds than those who are less willing to reach out. Having the proper motivation is important in all communication, but particularly so in intercultural interactions because they can be quiet challenging. Tolerance for Ambiguity  Communicating with people from different backgrounds can be confusing. A tolerance for ambiguity makes it possible to accept, and even embrace, the often equivocal and sometimes downright incomprehensible messages that characterize intercultural communication Openmindedness  Principled communicators are not likely to compromise deeply held beliefs about what is right. At the same time, competence requires an attitude that recognized that people who behave differently are most likely followingrules that have governed their whole lives. Knowledge and Skill  Communication Theorist Charles Berger outlines three strategies for moving forward to a more mindful, competent style of intercultural communicationGlobalization and its Impacts onCommunication in SelfGovernmentAbstract.Research background: Globalization has significantly affected the way aterritory communicates its offer. Only public administration, which isinnovative and at the same time effective in its activities, can adapt andrespond to the everchanging conditions and requirements of today'ssociety and its members. Innovation and its activities, research anddevelopment are the result of proliferation and they are considered to bethe driving force behind the growth of the economy, in the form of newknowledge. Those regions that have spent more money and effort oninnovation activities in the past are now at a more advanced level. Theseare the main reasons to focus on this topic and bring the results of ourresearch.Purpose of the article: The aim of the article is to present the findingswhich show the level of communication between the municipality and thepublic and the possibilities of using communication tools towards theirmore effective usage.Methods: It presents the results of a questionnaire survey realized at thelevel of local governments in the Trnava region. The results of thequestionnaire survey with a description and explanation are showngraphically. The offices we asked were the following: Trnava City Office,Trnava SelfGoverning Region Office, Trnava District Office.Findings and value added: The article presents the findings of a surveythat was carried out for the purpose of the dissertation which deals withregional marketing communications. The outcome of the survey specifiedthe direction of the main research in our dissertation.Keywords: region; marketing; communication; innovation; globalizationJEL Classification: R58; R50; M31*Corresponding author: 2764922@student.ucm.sk  8012 © The Authors, published by EDP Sciences. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the CreativeCommons Attribution License 4.0 (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).1 IntroductionGlobalization is a phenomenon without borders. It connects cultures and transformssociety. It also brings about changes that have affected the world economy, world trade,transport, the environment and other important areas such as the development and progressof countries and regions. It is also often referred to as a driving force for change, which hasaccelerated various areas of life such as information and communication technologies, newforms of competitiveness, digitization or innovation.Innovations in selfgovernments represent changes that lead to the creation of specialprocesses. The intention is to improve the current and future state in terms of professional,qualification or organizational aspects.The effectiveness of the development of an innovative selfgovernment can help toreduce disparities between individual selfgovernments.2 Theoretical background2.1 GlobalizationThe definition of globalization can be approached from different perspectives. A cleardefinition of the term is quite problematic. An interesting look at the definition of this termis provided by U. Beck, who points out that "globalization is certainly the most frequentlyused, misused and the rarest defined term of recent but also incoming terms." The new economy creates conditions for a new conception of thinking, based on newknowledge, with the use of information and communication technologies. In accordancewith the principles of globalization.Krejčí draws his attention to the idea of globalization as a "process of globalinformation, technological and economic interconnection. In a broader sense, globalizationalso involves the transformation of the political system, the formation of a global massculture and global problems.”  Globalization is about the transmission of persons,processes and products from one part of the world to another. This is a process throughwhich material and social phenomena generated in one part of the world become part of thelives of people in other parts of the globe . Jens Bartelson  analyses in more detail theconcept of globalization since it has undergone significant changes over the last ten years.He considers globalization to be a process of interaction and transfer between existingunits, exchange across existing unit boundaries as well as between units and a system, butwith an assumption that this system and units remain the same throughout the wholeglobalization process.The times we live in can be called the times of change. The impulses for these changescan be found in the development of advanced technologies. Those have the ability toconnect information, the economy and society as a whole. Globalization is characterized byever  accelerating scientific and technological progress, to which we owe the great growthof new knowledge and technology. Pim Martens et al.  consider the objective assessmentof the causes, contents and consequences of globalization as a key issue for contemporaryresearch.Factors that explain the origin and development of globalization are divided into 5 groups:  8012 21. General factors and environmental factors (growing world competition, productionand information technologies, development of the world economy, etc.).2. Political and governmental factors (economic integration, liberalization of foreigntrade, etc.)3. Factors related to markets and demand (homogenization and internationalization ofinternational demand, improvement of information and communicationtechnologies).4. Factors related to the subject of business, with strategic intentions and philosophyof the company.5. Competitive and financial factors.Five factors / phenomena accelerating the process of globalization:1. Microelectronics  enabled the reduction of information transmission distance.2. Presence of global problems of the planet  they cannot be solved at the level ofindividual states.3. Reducing the ability of states to solve their own national problems.4. Formation of powerful multinational companies.5. Increasing the number of educated people. 2.2 SelfgovernmentBased on Art. 64a of the Constitution of the SR no. 460/1992 Coll.,   territorial selfgovernment represents the authority of regions and municipalities to make independentdecisions, selforganize and selfaccount for a legally defined range of matters that aredirectly related to the interests of the population living in the territory. We divide selfgovernment into:1. territorial selfgovernment, which is divided into:o local government  municipalities / cities,o regional selfgovernment  higher territorial unit (VUC)2. selfgovernment of interest. (Characteristic features of selfgovernmentaccording to Hašanová ):o the existence of a community specific to its own needs and interests istaken into account by local authorities;o a community to which the status of a legal person is conferred byconstitution or by law. It is reflected in the principles of autonomy andindependence.o a community which elects its own bodies.Territorial selfgovernment represents the community of citizens, their interests andpreferences, it is a representative of a pluralistic democratic system in a certainmunicipality or region.2.3 Regional marketing communicationThe task of marketing communication at the regional level is to inform about the activitiesand products of the city and to influence the target groups with its tools so that theseactivities lead towards a positive perception of the given locality, selfgovernment,territory.The essence of marketing communication of cities and municipalities can besummarized by the following attributes  building of the positive locality image, effectivecommunication and its optimization, improving relations between citizens and employees,strengthening the identification of residents with the territory and creating suitableplatforms for their participation in local development.  8012 3The selfgovernment must communicate primarily in order to gain public support,inform the public, arouse public interest in the development of the territory, gain publicunderstanding in solving problems, reach a mutual agreement between the various entities,promote its own territory in the market. 2.4 The Importance of innovation in selfgovernmentAmong the changes that urge the introduction of innovations and underline theirimportance, we can include rapidly changing times, globalization, sustainability,uncertainty and many others. Inovative activities lead to the performance increase of aspecific business entity. These activities are connected to the preparation and selling of anoriginal idea.  Every entity operating in a business or social environment encountersthese changes and must address them. Municipalities are no exception, namely the people /employees who work in it. Thanks to innovation, means and conditions are created in theselfgovernments, through which adaptation to change is easier and more natural. Theoriesof globalization tend to accentuation importance the role of regions in global economicrestructuring. Globalization have reduced spatial barriers and asymmetry in development,and poor regions and rural areas may seize the new opportunities to develop theireconomies .The emphasis on increasing efficiency in public administration is becoming more andmore striking, as is the appeal for the openness of public administration towards citizens.Only an innovative public administration is able to respond and adapt to the changingconditions of public society.Author Rumpel  distinguishes 4 types of innovation in the public sector: institutional  organizational (e.g. the concept of New Public Management) innovation in financial management (e.g. publicprivate partnerships) product (e.g. science and technology parks) technicaltechnological (e.g. egovernment)The financial credibility of a local budget determines the competitiveness of a region andensures the effective implementation of its economic objectives as well as the feasibility ofthe financial security of regional development. Based on the analysis and evaluation of the tasks and possibilities of the selfgovernmentsfrom the point of view of the application of institutionalorganizational innovations, theauthors of Žárska et al  formulated several recommendations, we chose the following: education as a platform for passing on and at the same time acquiring information,knowledge and insights must be a constant target of local governments. Lifelonglearning, not only by selfgovernment employees but also by marginalized groups, theunemployed, etc. increasing demands for the performance of functions in local selfgovernment,implementation of methods of quality and efficiency of public services digitization of selfgovernments  creating conditions to be available online.There are many opportunities for implementing innovations in the public sector. Themajority of public services are being innovated to develop new solutions to a persistentproblem, making services for citizens more efficient and effective. Innovation managementshould be in the hands of a team of managers, experts who are able to create the conditionsfor their implementation. These include finding opportunities, analysing resources anddecisionmaking, an innovation plan, etc. Competitiveness is a driver of regionaldevelopment, which depends on elements of territorial capital (a set of tangible andintangible, public and private resources), but also on territorial complexity (from territorialcapital, but also from other factors as how regions innovate, what is the potential of urbangrowth and the structural dynamics of cities) . Local and Global Communicationin MulticulturalSettingsINTRODUCTIONCommunication can be a challenging activitybecause of the highly pluralistic nature of thepeople participating in the communicationprocess. Each participant may differ incultural, social and biological backgrounds,which are all critical factors to effective andsuccessful intercultural communication.Instances there are that these differences maylead speakers to misinterpretation ormisunderstanding. So in order to understandcommunication within and outside thecontext of one's culture, it is necessary toidentify first the challenges that may beencountered, then the form of interculturalcommunication, and the ways on how toimprove communicative competence inmulticultural settings.Living in a globalized world, you encounterpeople with diverse cultural backgrounds. Suchinteractions occur in a social, educational,political and commercial settings.Hence, in today's era of increased globalcommunication, it is imperative to understandintercultural communication for us to enhanceour intercultural awareness and competence.Intercultural competence is essential for us tolive harmoniously despite our differences inculture.CHALLENGES OF INTERCULTURALCOMMUNICATIONIt has become a widespread notion that speakers'use of different languages results in interculturalmiscommunication and misunderstanding. AsScollon and Scollon (1995) state:"When we are communication with people who arevery different from us, it is very difficult to knowhow to draw inferences about what they mean, andso it is impossible to depend on shared knowledgeand background for confidence in ourinterpretation.Indeed, the lack of shared knowledge andbeliefs and cultural diversity make it morecomplicated to arrive at the correct inferenceor interpretation of meanings. But it can alsobe argued that English is now a global linguafranca. In fact, with the ASEAN integration,English has been declared the official orworking language of ASEAN. So with just onelanguage to be spoken or used by manycountries including the 10 member countriesof the ASEAN, what else can go wrong?It is thus important to emphasize that theownership of English cannot be attributed tojust one country or to those who use it as anative or home language. The varieties ofEnglish spoken by different speechcommunities have evolved for a reason. Theyuse it for communal purposes. Thesevarieties have been heavily influenced by thelocal culture and its speakers.FORMS OF INTERCULTURALCOMMUNICATIONCommunication is like a kaleidoscope. Manyunits of different sizes, shapes, and colormake up the whole picture. Any action, shift,or change adjusts the pattern and therelationship of all of the units to each other,thereby altering the picture.a. Interracial communication  communicatingwith people from different racesb. Interethnic communication  interacting withpeople of different ethnic originc. International communication communicating between representatives fromdifferent nations.d. Intracultural communication  interactingwith members of the same racial or ethnicgroup or cocultureAccording to Gamble and Gamble (2008),communication style among cultures differs,it may be high context or lowcontextcommunication.Highcontext communication is a tradition—linked communication system which adheresstrongly to being indirect. Lowcontextcommunication is a system that works onstraightforward communication.IMPROVING INTERCULTURALCOMMUNICATION COMPETENCEThe following guidelines may help youenhance your ability to communicateeffectively across cultures (Gamble & Gamble,2008):1 . Recognize the validity and differences ofcommunication styles among people.2. Learn to eliminate personal biases andprejudices.3. Strive to acquire communication skillsnecessary in a multicultural world.VARIETIES AND REGISTERSOF SPOKEN AND WRITTENLANGUAGEThe spoken mode is often associated witheveryday registers while the written mode isstrongly associated with academic registers.However, this is not always true. For Instance, ineveryday communication, face to faceconversations are usually supplemented by textmessaging. In academic contexts, significantforms of oral communication are used along withwritten communication. Significantly, both everyday and academic communications arecharacterized by multimodality or the use ofmultiple modes of communication, includingspoken, written modes and images, music,videos, gestures, etc.Lin (2016) presents the following nature oflanguage variation as prescribed by mostlinguists based on the ideas of Mahboob(2014).1. Language varies when communicating withpeople within (local) and outside (global) ourcommunity.2. Language varies in speaking and in writing.3. Language varies in everyday and specializeddiscourses.TYPES OF LANGUAGE REGISTER(Joos, 1961 as cited in Biber, 1994)There are five language registers. Each level has anappropriate use that is determined by differingsituations.a. FrozenThis style of communication rarely or neverchanges. It is "frozen" in time and content. Thisis official business and educational languagewhich features complete sentences and specificword choice, which often contains archaisms.Example:We, the sovereign Filipino people, imploring theaid of Almighty God In order to build a just andhumane society, and establish a Government thatshall embody our ideals and aspirations, promotethe common good, conserve and develop ourpatrimony, and secure to ourselves and ourposterity, the blessings of independence anddemocracy under the rule of law and a reqime oftruth, justice, freedom, love equality, and peace,do ordain and promulgate this Constitution(Preamble, 1987 Constitution)b. Formal/AcademicThis language is used in formal setting and isone—way. This use of language usually follows acommonly accepted format. It is generallyimpersonal and formal. It is often used to showrespect. Word selection is more sophisticated,and certain words are always or never useddepending on the situation. In a formal re ister,the story structure focuses on the plot: It gas abeginnin and ending and it weaves sequence,cause ana effect, characters, and consequencesinto the plot.Example:"The strongest reason why we ask for woman avoice in the government under which she lives; inthe religion she is asked to believe; equality insocial life, where she is the chief factor; a place inthe trades and professions, where she may earnher bread, is because of her birth right to self—sovereignty; because, as an individual, she mustrely on herself (a speech delivered by ElizabethCady Stanton (1892)."c. ConsultativeIt is a standard form of communications. Usersengage in a mutually accepted structure of interfaces.It is formal and societal expectations accompany theusers of speech. This register can be described astwoway participation, professional settingbackground information is provided (prior knowledgeis not assumed) interruptions and feedback fillersallowed ("uhhuh," "I see"), more complex syntax, andlonger phrases. Sentence structure need not becom lete, since non—verbal assists, hand movementsand Body language, are often used to conveymeaningExample:Patient: Hello doctor! Can you spare me a few minutes?Doctor: Certainly! Come in and sit down. Now, what is the matter withyou?Patient: I seem to be generallv out of sorts. I have no appetite for myfood, and yet I am always suffering from indigestion.Doctor: Are you troubled with headaches?Patient: Yes, I am. And what is worse I cannot sleep at night.Doctor: I see. What is your work?Patient: I am a clerk in an office, and have to work for long hours.Doctor: I see, Well, you are evidently run down and need a rest andchange. All your troubles are signs of nervous exhaustion. I will give youa nerve tonic, but the main thing is rest. If you do as I say, you Will soonbe alright.Patient: Thank you, doctor. I will follow your advice.Doctor; Let me know how you get on.d. Casual/lnformalThe language used in conversation with friends. Acasual register is characterized by 400 to 500 wordvocabulary, broken sentences, and interruptions arecommon. Very informal lanauaqe, idioms, ellipsis,and slang are common. No background informationis provided, "group" language  must be a member touse, interruptions are common, and context andnonverbal communication are important. Generalword choice and conversation are dependent uponnonverbal assists. The focus of the story ischaracterization. It is an indirect, random approachwith many omissions and does not have a sequence,cause, and effect, or consequence.Example:Marie: Hey, D! I'm stressing about weight gain onXmas. Got any ideas for me?Diane: It's only one day, so don't worry too much.Marie: I'm worried I'll eat a gazillion calories at myinlaws! @Diane: Just make sure you don't arrive too hungry,have a healthy snack beforehand (nuts, granola bar,etc.)Marie: Yeah, you're right. Thanks, D! You're the best!XxDiane: No worries, M! xxe. IntimateThis communication is private. It is reservedfor close family members or intimaterelations. It is nonpublic, the intonation is ascrucial as wording and grammar, and often aspecial vocabulary full of coded words isused.Example:Husband: Hi honey, how was your day?Wife: Great, We got a lot done. And yours?Husband: Fine, but stressful. Pass me thatmagazine, please.Wife: Here you go, darling.LOCAL AND GLOBAL COMMUNICATION IN MULTICULTURAL SETTING Communication is often defined as the sharing of information, ideas, and messages between two or more people. The primary goal, of course, of communication, is to understand the information being conveyed or shared and at the same time, also to be understood. One of the ways successful communication can be achieved is to have the involved parties share a mutual knowledge of how the signs and symbols used in communication come together to create meaning. However, communication is not as simple as sending and receiving messages as it may involve interaction between people that come from different backgrounds and cultures. More often than not, how people impart and understand a message would depend on how they derive or inject meaning into what is being said (or not said). People read into information based on their knowledge of it, and their knowledge is ultimately shaped by the culture and environment they are in. It is important to understand that what is defined as appropriate in terms of communication can differ from person to person or from culture to culture. Communicating in a culturally appropriate way would require finding ways to impart and receive messages with respect to the cultural differences between individuals involved in the communication process. Therefore, to be able to communicate effectively in the local and global setting, one must be able to understand that there are internal and external differences one must take into consideration before diving into the process of communication. LEARNING OUTCOMES At the end of this lesson, the students shall have been able to: 1. define and discuss cultural diversity; 2. discuss and define what intercultural communication is; 3. identify ways culture can determine how information is processed; 4. compare and contrast communication in the local and global setting; and, 5. identify effective ways of communicating within the influences of individual cultures.    22  INPUT Effective communication is important in any interaction one gets involved in. In theory, effective communication is as simple as sending a message to a receiver, the receiver decoding the message and understanding it and ideally, getting a response from that said receiver. However, effective communication is not as simple as it theoretically sounds. In fact, effective communication involves a complex understanding of how symbols and signs are presented based on the cultures and environment of the communicators. Look at how one communicates within the boundaries of his/her home. Despite speaking the same language and coming from the same background and culture, members of a family still experience miscommunication due, most likely, to differences in age, gender, and personality or the context with which the message is interpreted. MOTIVATION What does crosscultural interaction look like? Look at the image below and analyze it carefully.  Now, take that same situation and place it in a global context. Imagine one’s selfinteracting with people from different backgrounds, cultures, and languages. The opportunity for miscommunication becomes more apparent the bigger the difference is between the communicators’ language and culture. What is culture? Culture is often defined as the learned patterns and attitudes shared by a group of people (Martin & Nakayama, 2010). According to Geert Hofstede (1984), a noted social psychologist, culture is "the programming of the mind." He said: Every person carries within him or herself patterns of thinking, feeling, and potential acting which were learned throughout  lifetime. Much of  acquired in early childhood, because at that time a person is most susceptible to learning and assimilating. Hofstede (1984) described how patterns are learned and developed through one’s day to day interactions with his surroundings  with his family, community, school, work, and so on (Martin & Nakayama, 2010). Culture shapes one’s perceptions and ideas, which in turn, would also shape how one interacts, gives meaning to and draws meanings from the signs, symbols, and messages he or she may encounter every day. What is Intercultural Communication? The differences of cultures and backgrounds affect communication. In fact, culture becomes a significant determiner of how people approach any form of communication. One’s environment can significantly change his or her perception about certain issues in the society which in turn would also determine how he or she would communicate the ideas he or she may want to tackle.  In addition, people from different backgrounds often encounter difficulties in processing meanings and understanding messages due to the difficulties in understanding certain factors of communication such as language, context, and meaning. Communication problems often occur when there is a lack of understanding about how certain cultures "work." Ultimately, the only way to lessen miscommunication in an intercultural context is to understand that no two individuals are alike and that every person comes from a background that may be different from one another. It is only by observing and learning the cultures of other people that one can possibly lessen the gap created by cultural differences.  HighContext Cultures and LowContext Cultures One framework for understanding intercultural communication is the concept of high and low context cultures. This concept refers to the values cultures place upon direct and indirect communication (Neese, 2016). According to scholars, highcontext and low context cultures rely on the verbal and nonverbal cues present in the interaction to draw meaning from the message. Highcontext cultures take into account the background information of the sender and receiver when comprehending messages. Asian, African, Arab, central European and Latin American cultures are generally considered to be highcontext cultures. For these cultures, they tend to put a premium on the relationships they have with the people they interact with. Productivity would depend on how these relationships work within and among the members of the group. Nonverbal cues are very important and more often control how the message is understood more than the verbal cues, which may be more indirect than direct (Halverson & Tirmizi, 2008). On the other hand, western cultures with European roots, such as the United States and Australia, are generally considered to be lowcontext cultures (Neese, 2016). Contrary to highcontext cultures, lowcontext cultures prefer direct over indirect communication. They may not put too much value on the nonverbal cues present in the communication. Relationships do not seem to play a significant role in the communication process. Ideas and information are sent and received explicitly (Halverson & Tirmizi, 2008). Cultural differences shape how people interact and communicate with one other. According to Carol Kinsey Goman (2011), people in Japan, a highcontext culture, would rather communicate facetoface than over electronic devices, which are often preferred by people in highlyindustrialized countries such as the US, UK, Germany, etc., which are considered lowcontext cultures. This is because the Japanese place more value on the relationships they create and establish through communication. The United States can be considered as an individualistic culture (lowcontext) which emphasizes individual goals, whereas, Japan can be seen as a collectivist culture (highcontext) wherein a person defines himself based on his relationship with others (Spring, 2000).    Read some examples of Intercultural Communication below.     There are often misinterpretations of messages that are sent between cultures. Most times, these misinterpretations are a result of differences in cultural values (Spring, 2000). Potential Areas for Misinterpretation in Intercultural Communication According to AJ Schuler (2003), miscommunication in a crosscultural setting can be minimized if one is aware of the different areas wherein misinterpretation can occur. He came up with a list of potential hot spots in intercultural communication which more often than not, have become areas for miscommunication. Looking into these areas and studying them before interacting with people from other cultures can greatly help lessen the obstacles one would need to navigate in the communication process. 1. Opening and closing conversations Different cultures have different ways of going about addressing someone in terms of whom should be addressed first, how they should be addressed and when they can be addressed. Who speaks first or who closes the conversation can also differ from one culture to another. In some situations, addressing someone in a manner that is not common in a particular culture can often be seen as rude and disrespectful. 2. Taking turns during conversations There are appropriate ways of interacting with other people in all cultures. In some, turntaking is often welcomed whereas, in other cultures, listening and reserving comment after the conversation is preferred. Other cultures believe that giving an immediate response can be seen as a challenge or humiliation.  1.  In Japan, for a period, the sale of Pampers diapers was not particularly promising. After a thorough study, it was discovered that the reason for the low sale of the Pampers diapers was based on the importance the Japanese put on gender differences. The result was the introduction of pink diapers for girls and blue diapers for boys. 2. The American cowboy used in the ads of cigarette brand Marlboro is often seen as an effective symbol in most countries, except in Argentina where their concept of a cowboy is often seen as a lowerclass worker. The Intersection of Cultures: Multicultural Education in the United States and the Global Economy (Joel Spring, 2000)  26 3. Interrupting In some culture, interruption during a conversation can be acceptable especially when it is within the context of the interaction. However, in other cultures interrupting in the middle of a conversation, regardless of the point being made, can be viewed as impolite. 4. Using silence The use of silence and the amount of silence in communication can be interpreted in many ways depending on the culture in which one is interacting. In some cases, silence before a response to a conversation would give the impression of thoughtfulness and consideration to the first speaker. On the other hand, silence can also come off as a sign of hostility or indifference to others. 5. Using appropriate topics of conversation Appropriateness of topics could largely depend on the situation one is in, and the culture one belongs to. In some cultures, talking about money can be seen as unethical and embarrassing. In other cultures, however, one can easily talk and ask about how much a person earns. In Asian cultures, talking about family issues with those who are not part of the family can be construed as inappropriate. Many Asian cultures protect family issues fiercely. Appropriateness of topics to discuss is not only determined by where one is from but also by their religion, educational background, etc. 6. Using humor In Western culture, humor is often used as an icebreaker in communication to help establish rapport with others. In some ways, humor is used to make an atmosphere less stifling and more relaxed. In other cultures and situations, however, using humor in a conversation may seem disrespectful. 7. Knowing how much to say Knowing how much to say and when to say it can also determine the success of communication. Many people from Western cultures prefer communicating in a straighttothepoint manner; whereas, those from Asian cultures are less confrontational, thereby utilizing a more indirect approach in discussing certain matters. 8. Sequencing elements during a conversation When to say things is as important as what one says and how one says things. A speaker should always consider the timing in which he or she should introduce a topic, negotiate, or ask for directions. Often, people struggle about when they should change direction in terms of the conversation or how far into the conversation would it be appropriate to ask questions. It is important to note, however, that culture being mentioned here is not merely limited to geographics. Cultural differences may also be determined by gender, age, religion, education, position, political affiliations, and so on. For example, some religions would strongly define the roles of men and women within the society which would, in turn, dictate how they interact with people of the opposite sex. Intercultural communication is an everevolving process. As cultures continue to grow, morph, adapt and interact with each other, how people communicate will continue to change over time. As technology and travel continue to make access to the rest of the world easier and more convenient, it is important to understand that differences in culture should be studied to allow for better communication and interaction among the members of the global community. No culture is better than the other, and no culture is perfect. It is only when people understand this that they can learn to adapt and interact with one another in a harmonious level. COMPREHENSION QUESTIONS 1. How would you define intercultural communication? 2. How can culture affect the way people communicate with each other? 3. Compare the differences in communication between highcontext cultures and lowcontext cultures. 4. How can one avoid or lessen opportunities for miscommunication in a multicultural level?          What’s the difference between multicultural, intercultural, and crosscultural communication?What is culture? It seems like a straightforward question, but when talking about a person’s cultural background, the answer is actually quite complex. Culture in this context means a set of learned values, internalized practices, and shared beliefs among a group of people. We often think of it simultaneously as something internal and external, both locked inside us and overshadowing us. A more nuanced way to think about culture is that it’s something we perform and embody that changes over time. As we grow up, we get better and better at reproducing the cultures we are seen to be part of. And note that plural, cultures; we often participate in more than one, at different moments and contexts in our lives.Cross Cultural Communication vs Intercultural vs MulticulturalCommunication is a cultural practice like any other, shaped to a large degree by personal experience and tradition. Each culture often uses a particular language, though there is not a onetoone correspondence; think of how many cultures use English! So, what happens when people performing different cultures interact?The definitions of communication and its environments as multicultural, intercultural, or crosscultural address some of the possibilities. Grasping the distinction is important for anyone about to enter an unfamiliar cultural context—which we all do, sometimes. With the right training, you can learn to approach these moments with the most appropriate mindset to communicate effectively.Multicultural CommunicationWhen people from multiple backgrounds, with different ways of communication, coexist without really interacting deeply—that’s a multicultural communication situation. There are multiple cultures present, but there isn’t much crossover or integration between the groups, who remain largely separate. Often, there is one group (or maybe a few) that has the most prestige relative to the others. This doesn’t have to be the case; instead, think of multicultural communication as the prerequisite for the other two types. There must be more than one culture to have the kind of moments produced by intercultural or crosscultural communication. But sometimes, it takes resources (such as language services) or a shift in attitudes to move beyond this starting point. When interactions between people in different cultures occur in a solely multicultural context, they are rarely rich learning experiences for anyone involved.Intercultural CommunicationLike multicultural communication, intercultural communication acknowledges the coexistence of multiple cultures in a single space. However, it goes one step further by focusing on the productive encounters that are constantly taking place between cultures. If individuals can embody or perform multiple cultures, then any interaction between two people can potentially be an intercultural one. They may or may not share a common language; even within English, there are many cultures at play. But from a translation and interpreting point of view, an intercultural moment is perhaps most apparent when it happens across languages.Training in language and culture is an important part of acclimating to an unfamiliar living situation, especially when moving abroad. After all, the point is not only to learn vocabulary and grammar, but also something of the worldview and practices. By being selfaware, and thinking of yourself as an active participant in multiple cultures, you enrich your own perspective.CrossCultural CommunicationThis term is often confused with intercultural communication—but the two are not actually interchangeable!The key aspect of crosscultural communication is the comparison between two (or more) cultures. Researchers in this field attempt to objectively analyze the communication styles for the same contexts in different cultures.For example, how do two groups differently handle a business situation like a job interview or board meeting? This kind of perspective is most useful for workers who are planning to relocate abroad.Potential assignees should learn the relative difference of specific communicative moments from their own, which can help avoid culture shock. But sometimes the patterns found in specific cases are generalized into personality attributes that are applied to all cases.Be careful with this assumption, as it can lead you to think everyone from a particular group is hopelessly different. Simply comparing the norms of how people behave does not on its own explain an entire culture, or its members.Any given moment of communication can move through all three of these frames, depending on the participants’ behavior. It takes practice, but the more exposure you have, the better you will understand how an interaction is unfolding.Then, you can adjust your own style of speaking and acting to find common ground, even without a common language. If there’s one quality all cultures share, it’s the expectation of being acknowledged—which is the foundation of being understood.What are some barriers to local and global communication in multicultural settings?Six key barriers for crosscultural communications1 Ethnocentrism. We all have a natural tendency to look at other cultures through our own lenses.2 Stereotyping.3 Psychological barriers.4 Language barriers.5 Geographical distance. 6 Conflicting valuesLOCAL AND GLOBALCOMMUNICATION INMULTICULTURAL SETTINGSUBTOPICS Definition of Communication Local Community Group Global Communication – Definition, Examples, and Benefits Definition of Culture Patterns of Cultural Differences CrossCultural Communication Importance of CrossCultural Communication Blocks to CrossCultural Communication Improving CrossCultural Communication Tips for Effective CrossCultural CommunicationCOMMUNICATIONCommunication (from the Latin word“communicare” which means “to share”) is the act ofconveying meanings from one entity or group toanother through the use of mutually understood signs,symbols, and semiotic rules.LOCAL COMMUNITY GROUPA community has been defined as a group ofinteracting people living in a common location. The word isoften used to refer to a group that is organized aroundcommon values and is attributed with social cohesion withina shared geographical location, generally in social unitslarger than a household.GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONGlobal communication can be defined just asany communication can: a message is sent from oneperson or group to another anywhere in the world.EXAMPLES OF GLOBAL COMMUNICATION1. Email2. Web pageBENEFITS OF GLOBAL COMMUNICATION1. Doing business on a global level open up new markets forselling products and services and can give you access toresources and talent that may not be available locally.2. The more globally connected the world has become, thefaster people have adopted new global communicationtechnologies.CULTURE Culture is the “lens” through which you view the world. A group which shapes a person’s values and identity. Culture is formed:RaceEthnicityGenderClass and ReligionCountry of OriginGeographic RegionPATTERNS OF CULTURAL DIFFERENCES Different Communication Styles Different Attitude Towards Conflicts Different Approaches in Completing tasks Different Decision Making Styles Different Attitudes Towards Disclosure Different Approaches to KnowingCROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION Crosscultural communication is a field ofstudy that looks at how people fromdifferent backgrounds communicate, insimilar and different ways amongthemselves, and how they endeavour tocommunicate across cultures.IMPORTANCE OF CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION Business Opportunities Job Opportunities Globalization Sharing of views and ideas Talent Improvisation Understanding of Diverse MarketBLOCKS TO CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION1. Ethnocentrism2. Discrimination3. Stereotyping4. Cultural Blindness5. Tone DifferenceIMPROVING CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION Overcome ethnocentrism Recognize cultural variation Learn about cultures Remove language barrier Help others adapt to our culture Write and speak clearly Improve communication skill Listen carefully Respect style preferencesTIPS FOR EFFECTIVE CROSS CULTURAL COMMUNICATION1. Slow Down2. Avoid Negative Questions3. Separate Questions4. Take Turns5. Write it Down6. Be Supportive7. Check Meanings8. Avoid Slang9.Maintain Etiquette10. Watch the Humoraccording to stringer and cassaday2009 culture is a systemof thinking and acting that is taught byand reinforced by a group of peoplecultural groups teach their memberscertain sets of values withaccommodating behaviorsand communication preferences so as youcan see hereculture is a system so therefore thereisa set of rules behaviors embeddedprinciples and whatnot that we instillin our people and take note that thisis taught by and reinforced by a groupof peopleso meaning culture is adapted or adoptedokay whichever might apply and this issomething that is sociallyall right inherited okay this issomething thatis gotten from outside factorsor outside forces this is actually whyyou know dictionary meanings would tellyou that culture includes the tastesand manners that are favored by a socialgroupor that culture is all the knowledge andvalues shared by a society orculture is the attitudeand behavior that are characteristicof a particular social group ororganizationand this leads us to the point that wehave to have what we callcultural understanding okay becausecultural understanding is something thatinfluences our personal preference andcommunication style and continuesto influence our perception of othersthroughoutour life okay you have to understandwhere you're coming from as a groupas an organization or as a society as acommunityyou have to understand and accept yourbackgroundokay where you grew up in uh who yougrew up withand what are the characteristicvalues and manners that are in it okaybecausehaving cultural understanding is knowingyouand apart from knowing you it's knowingothers as well becausewhen you know you you can better relateto others okay so um you have to startfrom understandingwhat's within you and what areactually influencing the person that isyoubefore you can well relate to otherpeoplenow at this point when you already havecultural understandingyou may now see that apart from yourculture there are diversecultures outside it that you really needto comprehend and you really need tohave a grasp aboutthis is because you have to toleratediversityyou have to embrace diversityand differences that is outside your ownculturebecause you have to inevitablycommunicatecrossculturally okay which leads me tothe point thatevery time that you are talking topeopleoutside your own culture you're doingcrossculturalcommunication okay and crossculturalcommunicationoccurs between people who may havedifferentcultural perspectives okay this includethe entire range of differences fromnationality to age to differentdepartments within the same organizationso let me give you an exampledifferences in nationality you're afilipino when you talk to a foreignerautomatically you're doingcrosscultural communication okayas a filipino you've got your own set ofbeliefs of traditions of mannersof characteristics andyou try to mingle with a foreignerwho has their own so doing thatyou may encounter several barriers andseveral strugglesbut still you are able to do itbecause you have understanding of yourown culture andtheir culture and that there are severaldifferences between the two of youso crosscultural communication does notonly happen between nationalities itcould also happenbetween age groups so for example you'rea gen zperson or you're a person who is born inthe computerage and then you talk to an oldergeneration who does not knowabout computers and what they do or whodoes not understand how internet worksor cannot really even use a phone sothatis already crosscultural communicationbecause there's a lot ofbarriers that you have to cross and thatyou have to reallyuh understand the other end because youarereally coming from differentperspectivesand technicalities for that matter rightso there are a lot of issuesthat surround crossculturalcommunicationand three of which would begeneralizationsstereotypes and perception okay so let'sgouh for generalization first it says herethe generalizations are the patterns ofcommunicationused by most people in any culturalgroupso we can actually generalize basedon the you know characteristicuh characteristics of the population ofthe culture group so for example we cangeneralize filipinos as hospitablepeoplenow if you're gonna apply thisgeneralizationto each and every onethat belongs to that culture grouprigidlythen that becomes stereotype alreadyokay you are nowtrying to box okay each and everyindividual and that's certain groupas what is and what is not okay sofor example the generalization isuh filipinos are hospitable widma is afilipino therefore winma is a hospitablenow what if wynma is not reallyhospitable what if she doesn't reallylike welcoming guests what if she reallydoesn't likemingling with other people okay so thatis not true to herbut you trying to box winma into beinghospitable simply because of thatcertain generalization among filipinosit is what we call stereotypingokay so stereotypes are cultural normsokay apply to everyone in the groupin the region manner so this is to sayyou are generalizing hastilyokay that's hasty generalization or youare sweepingyou're doing sweeping statements okay sowhen we say sweeping statements you'retrying to sweep it all into that onesearch in fact when in factum not everyone could actually fit intothat generalizationokay so stereotypes are negative inconnotation because these are culturalnorms thatare really going overboard so anotherexampleuh for stereotypes let's say women okaygenerally speaking this is uh anaccepted generalization okaywomen are weaker than men in terms of uhphysical aspectright because science has evidence forit physiologicallyum we can actually prove that that's anacceptable generalizationgeneralization but for you to say forexample that womencan't pull themselves into the armythe stereotyping that women can't doanythingsimply because they're weaker than menand they're only inferior to men when infact there are certain women that couldactually pull their weight togetherin the army so even when women aregenerally weaker in terms of physicalaspect does it mean that each and everywomenwoman cannot really do that thingperception is highly personal andcultural at the same time soyou perceive people in things and placesand whatnotbased on what you experienced and whatyou are experiencingpersonally and culturally okay so againculture plays a verybig role in terms of shaping ourperspectives okay how we see the worldhow we see peopleand because of these issues we areexperiencing a lotof crosscultural miscommunicationokay and according to barna 1997 thereare sixprimary sources of crossculturalcommunication miscommunication okayfirst of which is assumption ofsimilarities now what is thisso the invisible aspects of our culturelead us to assumeokay that our communication style andway of behaving is howeveryone communicates and behaves someaning when they actlike us we think they are right or wedon't give it much thought rightbut when someone acts differently we mayjudge themokay as again we judge them negativelybecause we assume thateverybody should be similar and similarwith usright next language differencesso language differences languagebarriersright so speaking a nonnative languagefor example can easily leadus to miscommunicate filipinos ingeneral would have a hard timepronouncingcup cop and cap okaysometimes we just pronounce this as gapso when you talk to a foreignerum and say cup we might not knowlike what really you're trying topertain toright because we're not really used tosaying ah a bad cat you saypeople speaking the same languageactually can experience miscommunicationbecause the same word can mean somethingdifferent so for exampleum in the west coast of the unitedstates pop would usually mean the sodadrinkright while on the east coast it oftenrefers to drug use or shooting someoneso you saypop her pop him it means shoot her shoothimso another example would be in theunited statesbeing stuffed would mean you have toomuch you had too much to eatwell in australia it often means you arepregnant okay so these differences canimpact our communication negativelyso hence miscommunication okay thirdlynonverbal misinterpretation sononverbal misinterpretations we send andreceivewordless messages through body languagefacial facial expression and eye contactand even clothing and furniture stylecan actually communicateunintended or unintended messageokay so it really matters a lot just asmirk or a smile or a raise of eyebrowcan actually makes a lot of differencein terms of communicationand a lot of times this causesmiscommunicationokay first we have preconceptions andstereotypesso preconceptions and stereotypesactually uh this has something to dowith our conceptions so cultureinfluences the way we see the worldright sometimes we've got preconceivednotions already about someone orsomething andand you know stereotyping occurs alreadywhen oversimplified characteristics areusedfor us to judge people or a group ofpeopleokay or an individual associated with acertain groupso yeah stereotyping and preconceptionsagainvery very big issuenext tendency to evaluate this issomehow somehow related to itbecause when we hear communication orobserve behavior we tend to interpretthe message or the action through ourcultural lensjust our cultural lens so we mayevaluate the message from behavioras good or bad without reallyunderstanding the intent okay so it'sjust the basis is just our cultural lensokay lastly ishigh anxiety againhigh anxiety is causedby this high effective filterokay we are so anxious about what we aregoing to saynext about uh how uncomfortable we arein our thoughts and whatnot so notunderstanding what is appropriateor expected can raise our anxiety leveland miscommunication can be a directresult of being in anancient state so for us to battle thiswe have to prepare we have to rehearsewe have to socially mentallyum be you knowready to actually do communicationokay so at this pointi would like to move on to varieties andregister okay so varieties and registersare very important concepts in terms ofmulticulturalcommunication because these are thefactors thatdirectly and indirectly affect ourcommunicationand may make or break communication okayso let's go to register first okayregisteris the level of formality in thelanguage assets are mean by context soagaini've been talking about context sinceday oneand you probably understand what contextmean by nowokay and depending on the context orum defined by the purpose and thesetting weneed to decide what which level offormality we have to use so that's whatwe call registerso we have formal register we havenonformal registerright so formal register isagain when you do these things so forexample we're writing business lettersletters of complaintsome essays reports official speechesannouncements professional emailswe have to use formal register rightum because these are formal occasions orformal situationstherefore um we don't use contractionswe don't use slang okay we don't usewe rarely use the the first personor the second person point of view wetry to sound formaltherefore we use the third person okaywe avoid too much passive in formalregisterwe also avoid slang idioms we have toavoidexaggeration or cliches we have to gostraight to the pointwe have to go to the business itselfokay we don't beat around the bushwe do it formally try to avoid usingabbreviations and acronymsif you're doing formal register you havetowrite what abbreviations and acronymsmeanand then you have to write in completesentences so never write in incompletesentences when you're doingformal register right and also do notstart your sentences with likeso but also okay this is very informalin natureso again please make sure that you havea subject and a predicate in yoursentencesso it um it would really be formallystructured okay now we've got umnonformal registerum nonformal registers uh we use it forpersonal emails phone texts short notesfriendly letters most blogs and theoriesand journalsso these are full of slang and clichesand figurative language which is whichare very much welcomebecause again this is very nonformal someaninguh you may just be talking to a friendor someone really close to you itdoesn't really matterlike how you sound to them becauseyou're not really doing a formaltransaction okaythis is also full of symbolsabbreviation for example your shortnotes are full of abbreviations acronymswhatnot okay and you can even use thefirst person and second personright point of view there freely and youcan use the short sentencesin complete sentences you can have noparagraphsyou can even crack jokes and you canhave personal opinions put forward thereokay and the most common thing innonformal register is thatis the extra punctuation or theexcessive use of punctuation like forexample you say hibob exclamation exclamation exclamationpoint okay like10 examination points but but it's verywelcomeright sometimes um in nonformalregisteryou write as if you speakokay that's why you you tend to do theseextra punctuation and whatnotokay and uh again umthere are gray areas it's not onlyuh formal and nonformal we have grayareas likefor example here what we've gotlevel formality so we have the continuumof formal and nonformalbetween them we've got neutral intimatefrozen consultative so what are these sofor example neutral registerum is usually used for broadcasting fornewsuh writing uh basically to put forwardan opinion and from the public okay soyou don't needum to have up to be very opinionated allyou do is lay down the facts that's whyit's just neutral registerokay intimate register you do that foruhwhen you're talking to someone reallyclose to youuh perhaps a family member or bestfriend or someone who you're not reallyrelated with butum someone who you trust okay and whoyou are comfortable withokay perhaps a partner okay ora soul mate frozen registeror meanwhile is something that we see inthe bible or in history books forexample um becausethis these are the the registers thatare meantto be preserved that are meant to beunchangedso for example in the bible you say thoushall not stealokay and until now we can actuallysee it or read it because this registeris preserved okayit's not changed nor is meant to bechangedconsultative register so we've got umfor example youtalking to me a student talking to aprofessor regardinghis or her grade or his or her output orclass standinget cetera et cetera okay so again it'snot only formal nonformal there aregray areas like those that iset lastly i would like to talk aboutvariety so variety is a specificset of linguistic items which can beassociatedwith external factors such asgeographical area or social group sowhen we say linguistic items these aresounds words or grammatical featuresokay so these are the differentvariety is a set of sounds wordsgrammatical features that are unique toa particular geographical area orsocial group now variety develops for anumber of reasonsnumber one geographical areadifferences can come about forgeographical reasonslike people who live in differentgeographic areas often develop distinctdialectsor variations of language so for exampleumeven when people are native speakers ofenglishbased on their geographical locationthey can develop this certain variety ofenglish like standard american englishis very different from british englishthis means that whether you say often oroftenit doesn't matter because there's no onecorrect pronunciationagain these are called varieties oflanguage so varieties of englishyou may just choose whatever you'recomfortable and the only thing thatmatters is that you'll be consistentabout itnow you don't have to argue whether it'smo mobile or mobilebecause again varieties of englishis the key to it okay we have tounderstand it from that perspectiveLOCAL AND GLOBAL COMMUNICATION IN MULTICULTURAL SETTINGSCommunicating across culturesCommunicating across cultures is challenging. Each culture has set rules that its members take forgranted. Few of us are aware of our own cultural biases because cultural imprinting is begun at a veryearly age. And while some of a culture’s knowledge, rules, beliefs, values, phobias, and anxieties aretaught explicitly, most of the information is absorbed subconsciously. Carol Kinsey Goman (2011)High Context vs Low ContextAll international communication is influenced by cultural differences.HighContext cultures (Mediterranean, Slav, Central European, Latin America, Africa, Arab, Asian,American Indian) leave much of the message unspecified, to be understood through context, nonverbalcues, and between the lines interpretation of what is actually said. By contrast, LowContext cultures(most Germanic and Englishspeaking countries) expect messages to be explicit and specific.SEQUENTIAL VS SYNCHRONICSome cultures think of time sequentially, as a linear commodity to “spend,” “save,” or “waste.”Other cultures view time synchronically, as a constant flow to be experienced in the moment, and as aforce that cannot be contained or controlled.In sequential cultures (like North American, English, German, Swedish, and Dutch), business people givefull attention to one agenda item after another.In synchronic cultures (including South America, southern Europe and Asia) the flow of time is viewed asa sort of circle, with the past, present and future all interrelated. This viewpoint influences howorganizations in those cultures approach deadlines, strategic, thinking, investments, developing talentwithin, and the concept of “long term” planning.AFFECTIVE VS NEUTRALIn international business practices, reason and emotion both play a role. Which of thesedominates depends upon whether we are affective (readily showing emotions) or emotionally neutral inour approach. Members of neutral cultures do not telegraph their feelings, but keep them carefullycontrolled and subdued. In cultures with high affect, people show their feelings plainly by laughing,smiling, grimacing, scowling.Local and Global Multicultural Communication in Multicultural SettingsCommunication It is often defined as the sharing of information, ideas, and messages between two ormore people. The primary goal, of course, of communication, is to understand the informationbeing  conveyed  or  shared  and  at  the  same  time,  also  to  be  understood.  It  is  important  tounderstand that what is defined as appropriate in terms of communication can differ from personto person or from culture to culture.World of Diversity Diversity describes differences in age, culture, family structures, disabilities, ethnicity,gender, religion and sexual orientation. Understanding of a diverse world also includesunderstanding  technological  and  ecological  diversity.  There's  diversity  in  allcommunities. Global Community It refers to the people or nations of the world, considered as being closely connected by moderntelecommunications and as being economically, socially, and politically interdependent.Examples:*Major offices and some homes linked with optical fiber system*Global multimedia services*Satellite transmissionsEffective CommunicationIt is important in any interaction one gets involved in. Effective communication is not as simpleas it theoretically sounds. In fact, effective communication involves a complex understanding ofhow  symbols  and  signs  are  presented  based  on  the  cultures  and  environment  of  thecommunicators.Now, take that same situation and place it in a global context Imagine one's set interacting withpeople  from  different  backgrounds,  cultures,  and  languages.  The  opportunity  formiscommunication  becomes  more  apparent  the  bigger  the  difference  is  between  thecommunicators' language and culture.Cultural Awareness It is knowing that there are multiple different cultures based on religion, ethnicity, nationality,and other factorsthat different attitudes and outlooks.Cultural Sensitivity  Involves  accepting  those  differences  without  insisting  your  own  culture  is  better,  or  thateveryone should do it your way (Sherman, 2018).Community Group A community has been defined as a group of interacting people living in a common location.The word is often used  to refer to a group that is organized around common values  and isattributed with social cohesion within a shared geographical location, generally in social unitslarger than a household.Local Communication Local Communication is being able to speak with people in your immediate vicinity. It may bewritten in your mother tongue or another language that is widely used in your community. Local communication is being able to communicate with the members of your local area. It caneither be in your local language (mother tongue) or a common language that you speak withinyour town.Global Communication  Global communication can be defined just as any communication can: a message is sent fromone person or group to another anywhere in the world. Global communication is the term used to describe ways to connect, share, relate and mobilizeacross geographic, political, economic, social and cultural divides. It redefines soft and hardpower and diplomacy in ways not considered by traditional theories of international relations.Examples of Global Communication1.Email2.Web pageBenefits of Global Communication1. Doing business on a global level opens up new markets for selling products and services andcan give you access to resources and talent that may not be available locally.2. The more globally connected the world has become, the faster people have adopted new globalcommunication technologies.WHAT IS CULTURE? Culture is often defined as the learned patterns and attitudes shared by a group of people(Martin & Nakayama, 2010). According to Geert Hofstede (1984), a noted social psychologist.culture is "the programming of the mind." He said: “Every person carries within him or herselfpatterns of thinking, feeling, and potential  acting which were learned  throughout his or herlifetime. Much of  acquired in early childhood, because at that time a personis most susceptible to learning and assimilating.” A system of thinking and acting that is taught by, and reinforced by, a group of people. Cultural groups teach their members certain sets of values, with accompanying behaviors andcommunication preferences. Culture shapes one’s patterns are learned and developed through one’s day to day interactionswith his surroundings  with his family, community, school, work, and so on perceptions andideas, which in turn, would also shape how one interacts, gives meaning to and draws meaningsfrom the signs, symbols, and messages he or she may encounter every day. Culture is the “lens” through which you view the world.A group which shapes a person’s values and identityCulture is formed by: Race Ethnicity Gender Class and Religion Country of Origin Geographic RegionPATTERNS OF CULTURAL DIFFERENCES:Different Communication Styles Different Attitude Towards Conflicts Different Approaches in Completing tasks  Different DecisionMaking Styles Different Attitudes Towards Disclosure Different Approaches to Knowing CrossCultural Communication field of study  that looks at  how people from  different backgrounds communicate, insimilar and different ways among themselves, and how they endeavor to communicateacross cultures.EYECONTACTGESTURESTOUCHCOLOURSCLOTHINGGREETINGCrossCultural CommunicationDeals with the comparison of different cultures. In crosscultural communication, differences are understood and acknowledged, and can bring about individual change, butnot collective transformations. CrossCultural Communicationdifferences from nationality to age to different department within the same organization. Cross Cultural Communication  Comparing various cultures is the focus of cross cultural analysis. Crosscultural dialogue can result in individual change but not communal transformations since disparities are recognized and acknowledged.Crosscultural  deals  with  the  comparison  of  different  cultures.  In  crossculturalcommunication,  differences  are  understood  and  acknowledged  and  can  bring  aboutindividual change, but not collective transformations.Cross CulturalCross Cultural deals with the comparison of different cultures. In crosscultural communication,differences are understood and acknowledged, and can bring about individual change, butnot collectivetransformations. Crosscultural deals with the comparison of different cultures. In crosscultural communication, differences are understood and acknowledged, and can bring about individual change, but not collective transformations. In crosscultural societies, one culture is often considered “the norm” and all other cultures are compared or contrasted to the dominant culture.Cross – Cultural CommunicationCrosscultural communication is a field of study that looks at how people from differentbackgrounds communicate, in similar and different ways among themselves, and howthey endeavor to communicate across cultures.6 Barriers to CrossCultural Communication1. LanguageMisunderstandings  are  common  among  people  who  speak  the  same  language,  so  it’s  notsurprising that people from different cultural and linguistic backgrounds face communicationbarriers.2. StereotypesThese  are  some  assumptions made  about  a group  of  people and are  applied to  individualsirrespective of their personal characteristics because of their affiliation with a certain group3. Body LanguageBody language, includes all the communication through nonverbal channel. This can includehow  we  greet  others,  our  facial  expressions,  our  clothes,  hairstyles,  tone  of  voice,  eyemovements, how we listen, how we breathe, how close we stand to others, and how we touchothers.4. Emotional DisplayWhat is considered an appropriate display of emotion can differ from culture to culture. In somecountries, displaying angers, fear or frustration in the workplace is considered inappropriate in abusiness setting.5. EthnocentrismIt is a tendency to judge other groups according to standards and values of one’s own group. It isthe assumption that the culture of  one’s own group is moral, right, and rational, and  othercultures are inferior6. PrejudicePrejudice arises from the prejudging of someone’s characteristics simply because they havebeen  categorized  as  belonging  to  a  particular  group.  It  is  usually  associated  with  negativeattitudes to that group. Tips for Effective Intercultural and CrossCultural CommunicationMaintain EtiquetteAvoid SlangSpeak SlowlyKeep it SimplePractice Active ListeningTake Turns to TalkWrite Things DownBe SupportiveBe Careful with HumourAvoid Closed QuestionsIMPORTANCE OF CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION Business Opportunities Job Opportunities Globalization Sharing of views and ideas Talent Improvisation  Understanding of Diverse MarketIMPROVING CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION: Overcome ethnocentrism Recognize cultural variation Learn about cultures Remove language barrier  Help others adapt to our culture Write and speak clearly Improve communication skill Listen carefully Respect style preferencesTIPS FOR EFFECTIVE CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION1. Slow Down2. Avoid Negative Questions3. Separate Questions4. Take Turns5. Write it Down6. Be Supportive7. Check Meanings8. Avoid Slang9. Maintain Etiquette10. Watch the Humor BLOCKS TO CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION1. Ethnocentrism2. Discrimination3. Stereotyping4. Cultural Blindness5. Tone DifferenceFundamentals of effective crosscultural communication Awareness Preparation Language Humour OpennessMiscommunication in Cross Cultural Exchanges Assumption of similarities Language Differences Nonverbal Misinterpretation Preconceptions and Stereotypes Tendency to evaluate High anxietyIssues Generalizations are the patterns of communication used by most people in any cultural group. Stereotype are cultural norms applied to everyone in group in a rigid manner. Perception is highly susceptible to both personal and cultural experiences.Cross Cultural MiscommunicationSix Primary sources of crosscultural miscommunication:1. Assumption of similarities2. Language differences3. Nonverbal Misinterpretation4. Preconceptions and stereotypes5. Tendency to evaluate6. High Anxiety(Barna, 1997, in Stringer & Cassiday, 2009)WHAT IS INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION?The differences of cultures and backgrounds affect communication. In fact, culture becomes asignificant determiner of how people approach any form of communication. In  addition,  people  from  different  backgrounds  often  encounter  difficulties  in  processingmeanings and understanding messages due to the difficulties in understanding certain factors ofcommunication such as language, context, and meaning. Communication problems often occurwhen there is a lack of understanding about how certain cultures "work".EXAMPLES OF INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION1. In Japan, for a period, the sale of Pampers diapers was not particularly promising After athorough study, it was discovered that the reason for the low sale of the Pampers diapers wasbased on the importance the Japanese put on gender differences. The result was the introductionof pink diapers for girls and blue diapers for boys.2. The American cowboy used in the ads of cigarette brand Marlboro is often seen as an effectivesymbol in most countries, except in Argentina where their concept of a cowboy is often seen as alowerclass worker.POTENTIAL  AREAS  FOR  MISINTERPRETATION  IN  INTERCULTURALCOMMUNICATION1. Opening and closing conversation2. Taking turns during conversations3. Interrupting4. Using silence5. Using appropriate topics of conversation6. Using humor7. Knowing how much to say8. Sequencing elements during a conversationWhat is Local Communication?What is Global  Communication?Communication between people across the globe.What is Intercultural Communication?Interaction of people from diverse culturesForms of Intercultural Communicationa. Interracial communication communicating with people from different races.b. Interethnic communication interacting with people of different ethnic origin.c. International communication communicating between representatives from different nations.d. Intracultural communication interacting with members of the same racial or ethnic groupor coculture Communication Style among Cultures (Gamble and Gamble, 2008).HighContext Cultures  is a traditionlinked communication system which adheres strongly tobeing indirect.LowContext Cultures  is a system that works on straightforward communication.MulticulturalRefers to a society that contains several cultural or ethnic groups. People live alongside one another, but each cultural group does not necessarily have engaging interactions together.Intercultural CommunicationIt refers to effective communication between people who have different cultural backgrounds. Communities in which there is a deep understanding and respect for all cultures.Cultural UnderstandingInfluences our personal preferences in communication style and continues to influence our perception of others throughout our life.IssuesGeneralizationPatterns of communication used by most people in any cultural group.StereotypesCultural norms applied to everyone in a group in a rigid manner.PerceptionHighly susceptible to both personal and cultural experiences.CrossCultural Miscommunication1. Assumption of similarities2. Language Differences3. Nonverbal misinterpretations4. Preconceptions and stereotypes5. Tendency to evaluate6. High AnxietyHow to Communicate Effectively in a Global Society1. Express your ideas effectively2. Use effective listening skills3. Communicate with purpose4. Promote collaboration and cooperation5. Understand diversity and promote respect 6. Use social media responsiblyGeneral Guidelines for Communicating in a Multicultural Context Asking inappropriate or personal questions Stereotyping or generalizing certain group Using jargons, technical terms, and clichés Being insensitive, and not understanding the value of diversity Using genderbiased words or sexist languageExamples of GenderBiased Words Chairman Waitress Manpower StewardessLOCAL AND GLOBAL COMMUNICATION IN MULTICULTURAL SETTINGo What is Local and Global Communicationo Benefit of Local and Global Communicationo What is Multicultural, Intercultural, and CrossCultural Communicationo Seven important actions involved in the definition of multiculturalismo Issues of Local and Global Communication in Multicultural Settingo Fundamentals of effective crosscultural communicationo Miscommunication in Cross Cultural Exchanges What is Local and Global CommunicationBenefit of Local and Global CommunicationLocal Communication1. Interaction with Locals2. Experience Openness 3. You Build Trust4. Understand Local Culture Better5. Find Your Way Around6. You Gain Independence7. Gain RespectGlobal Communication1. Makes the world a smaller place  With the expansion of global communication, the fact that the globe is a tiny place has become more obvious. Family members who are separated by distance can stay in touch with one another by using technology.2. Increases business opportunities  A growth in worldwide communication opens up new economic options for companies. Understanding different cultures is necessary for effective communication in the global corporate environment.3. improves cultural education  new resources for teaching kids about other cultures have emerged as a result of increased global contact. Youngsters can, for instance, immediately learn about foreign cultures from children who reside in other nations.What Is Multicultural, Intercultural, and CrossCultural CommunicationMulticultural Communication  is referring to a society that is made up of various ethnic orcultural groupings. Although people coexist, not all cultural groups necessarily engage in interesting relationships with one another.Intercultural Communication  Communities that have a strong appreciation and regard for all cultures are said to be intercultural.Seven important actions involved in the definition of multiculturalism1. Recognition of the abundant diversity of cultures2. Respect for the differences3. Acknowledging the validity of different cultural expressions and contributions4. Valuing what other cultures offer5. Encouraging the contribution of diverse groups6. Empowering people to strengthen themselves and others to achieve their maximum potential by being critical of their own biases 7. Celebrating rather than just tolerating the differences to bring about unity through diversity.Issues of Local and Global Communication in Multicultural Setting Acceptance and respect Accommodation of beliefs Ethnic and cultural differences Language and communication Gender equality Physical, mental disabilities and generation gap Forms of Intercultural Communication Interracial communication – communicating with people from different races Interethnic communication – interacting with people of different ethnic origin International communication – communicating between representatives from different nations. Intracultural communication – interacting with members of the same racial or ethnic group or cocultureMulticultural refers to a society that contains several cultural or ethnic groups.  Peoplelive  alongside  one  another,  but  each  cultural  group  does  not  necessarily  have  engaginginteractions with each other.Intercultural describes communities in which there is a deep understanding and respectfor all cultures.The Impacts of Global Communication Globalization  has  a  direct  impact  on  communication,  which  also  serves  to  expandeconomic  prospects,  break  down  cultural  barriers,  and  create  a  global  village.  Theenvironmental, cultural, political, and economic components of the world have changed as aresult of both globalization and global communication.Local and Global CommunicationLocal Communication is being able to communicate with the members of your local area. It can be in your local language (mother tongue), or a common language that you speak within your town.Global Communicationis the term used to describe ways to connect, share, relate, and mobilize across geographic, political, economic, social, and cultural divides.Multicultural CommunicationIt is a verbal and written interaction involving two or more participants who have different cultural values and beliefs. It is also a way of delivering and understanding opinions and thoughts of people from different countries and variant cultures.5 Keys to Effective Multicultural Communication1. Speak Your Audience’s LanguageIf you speak English and they don’t, that means you need to have your content translated. Do notrely on Google to facilitate accurate and effective multicultural communication2. Don’t Just Translate, LocalizeTranslating the words into a language your audience can understand is the first step. Sometimes,that’s enough. But communication is about so much more than just words. That’s why trulyeffective multicultural communication often requires localization.3. Use an Effective Multicultural Communication StrategyManaging content across multiple regions can be complicated. One way to make things simpler?Implement a centralized, companywide strategy for multicultural communications, translation,and localization.4. Communicate Thoughtfully and ClearlyAnother key to multilingual communication: speak or write clearly, with consideration for yourmulticultural audience. If you’re talking, that means speaking slowly, so that ESL speakers canmore easily understand you.5. Mind Your MannersKeep in mind that different cultures have different etiquette rules. These rules can apply to bothspoken and written communication. Run afoul of them, and you risk alienating your audience.For written content, your language services provider can assist you in finding the right tone.Intercultural CommunicationIt is a discipline that involves communication between people from different cultures.There is a connection between a person’s personality traits and the ability to adapt to thehostcountry’s environment.4 forms of intercultural communication1. Interracial CommunicationIt is the communication of people from different races2. Interethnic CommunicationIt is the interaction with people of different ethnic origin3. International CommunicationIt is the communication between representatives from different nations4. Intracultural CommunicationIt is the interaction with members of the same racial or ethnic group or cocultureWhat is Intercultural Communication? People from diverse backgrounds often encounter difficulties in processing meanings andunderstanding  messages  due  to  the  difficulties  in  understanding  certain  factors  ofcommunication such as language, context, and meaning. Communication problems oftenoccur when there is a lack of understanding about how certain cultures "work.”HighContext Cultures and LowContext CulturesHigh context culture Communication is subtle, indirect, implicit, layered, and nuanced. Nonverbal cues are like eye movements, tone of voice, gestures, and facial expressionscarry a great deal of meaning.Low Context culture Communication is concise, straightforward, explicit, simple and clear. Requires attention to the literal meanings of the words than to the context surroundingthemCOMMUNICATIONCommunication is simply the act of transferring information from one place, person, or group toanother. Every communication involves (at least) one sender, a message and a recipientLOCAL COMMUNICATIONLocal communication is being able to communicate with the members of the local language (mother tongue), or a common language that you speak within your town.GLOBAL COMMUNICATION Global communication is the term used to describe ways to connect, share, relate and mobilize across geographic, political, economic, social, and cultural divides. It redefines soft and hard power as well as information power and diplomacy in ways not considered by traditional theoriesof international relations.DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MULTICULTURAL, INTERCULTURAL, AND CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION MULTICULTURAL COMMUNICATIONMulticultural refers to a society that contains several cultural or ethnic groups. People live alongside one another, but each cultural group does not necessarily have engaging interactions with each other.Ex. in a multicultural neighborhood people may frequent ethnic grocery stores and restaurants without really interacting with their neighbors from other countries. INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATIONIntercultural describes communities in which there is a deep understanding and respect for all cultures. Intercultural communication focuses on the mutual exchange of ideas andcultural norms and the development of deep relationships. In an intercultural society, no one is left unchanged because everyone learns from one another and grows together.TYPES OF INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION (a) Interracial Communication – communicating with people from different races(b) Interethnic Communication – interacting with people of different ethnic origin(c) International Communication – communicating between representatives from different nation (d) Intracultural Communication – interacting with members of the same racial or ethnic group or coculture CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATION ISSUES REGARDING THE DIVERSITY IN WORKPLACE Acceptance and RespectAccommodation of BeliefsEthnic and Cultural DifferencesGender EqualityLanguage and Communication Physical, Mental Disabilities and Generation Gap IMPACT OF GLOBAL COMMUNICATION Increased Business OpportunitiesFewer Cultural BarriersCreation of a Global VillageCommunicationCommunication is simply the act of transferring information from one place, person or group to another. Every communication involves (at least) one sender, a message and a recipient. Local CommunicationLocal communication is being able to communicate with the members of your local area. It can be either be in your local language (mother tongue), or a common language that you speak within your town. Global CommunicationBenefits of Global Communication:Doing business on a global level open up new markets for selling products and services and can give you access to resources and talent that may not be available locally. The more globally connected the world has become, the faster people have adopted new global communication technologies.Impact of global communication:Increased Business OpportunitiesCreation of Global VillageFewer cultural barriersDIFFERENCE BETWEEN MULTICULTURAL, INTERCULTURAL, CROSSCULTURAL COMMUNICATIONMulticultural CommunicationRefers to a society that contains several cultural or ethnic groups. People live alongside one another, but each cultural group does not necessarily have engaging interactions with each other.Intercultural CommunicationDescribes communities in which there is a deep understanding and respect for all cultures. Intercultural communication focuses on the mutual exchange of ideas and cultural norms and the development of deep relationships.Types of Intercultural Communication Interracial Communication  the interpreting and sharing of meanings with individuals from different races Interethnic communication  Communication between ethnic groups  International communication  communication between persons representing different nations Intracultural communication  interaction with members of the same racial or ethnic group or coculture as yoursDiversity in workplaceAcceptance and RespectAccommodation of beliefsEthnic and Cultural DifferencesLanguage and CommunicationGender EqualityPhysical, Mental disabilities ang generation gapCommunication is simply the act of transferring information from one place, person or group toanother. Every communication involves one sender, a message, and a recipient.Local Communication.Global CommunicationGlobal Communication is the term used to describe ways to connect, share, relate and mobilize acrossgeographic, political, economic, social and cultural divides. It redefines soft and hard power as well asinformation power and diplomacy in ways mot considered by traditional theories of internationalrelation.CultureA system of thinking and acting that is taught by, and reinforced by, a group of people. Cultural groupsteach their members certain sets of values, with accompanying behaviors and communicationpreferences.(Stringer & Cassiday, 2009)Multicultural, Intercultural, and Cross CulturalMulticulturalMulticultural refers to a society that contains several cultural or ethnic groups. People live alongsideone another, but each cultural group does not necessarily have engaging interactions with each other.Intercultural Intercultural describes communities in which there is a deep understanding and respect for all cultures.EVALUATING MESSAGES AND/ORIMAGES OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF TEXTSREFLECTING DIFFERENT CULTURESWHAT ARE MEDIA MESSAGES? Media messages contain information and ideas that areshared to a large audience of people. If these are not scrutinized properly, they may becomeagents of misinformation and lead people to formwrong judgment and images on the subject of thewrongly presented media message.By critically evaluating media messages, we ensurethat the ideas presented are accurate, relevant, andappropriate to be posted or shared with everyone."EVALUATING MESSAGES"Why do we evaluate messages?*The importance of evaluating theeffectiveness of the messages is bydeveloping and using strategic questions toidentify strengths and weaknesses"STRATEGIES FOR EVALUATING AMESSAGE"How do we evaluate messages? In order to evaluate whether a message iseffective, we can ask ourselves a series ofquestions which reflect a message'ssimplicity, specificity, structure andstickiness."FOUR MAIN QUALITIES FOR AN EFFECTIVEMESSAGE"1. Simplicity2. Specificity3. Structure4. Stickinessl. SIMPLICITY In order to ensure that the messages have simplicity,we should ask ourselves two questions: —is the purpose evident? Is the core message clear?2. SPECIFICITY*Refers to our choices of language and its usage on order toensure language is specific we may ask ourselves:— Is language specific?— is language concrete, rather than abstract?— Does it use words which have additional meanings and couldperhaps be misconstrued?3. STRUCTURE*Ideas should be organized and easy to follow. Does the messages have a STRUCTURE?is there a more effective way to arrange theideas?4. StickinessThe messages should display coherent andunity of ideas.Does the idea of the message flow smoothly?"EVALUATING IMAGES"It is important to critically evaluate images you use for research.Study and presentation images should be evaluated like anyother source, such as journal articles or books, to determinetheir quality, reliability and appropriateness. Visual analysisis an important step in evaluating an image and understandingits meaning.Three steps of evaluating an image and these are:I. Identifying Source2. Interpret contextual information3. Understand implicationsANALYZING THETEXT/IMAGES "CONTENT ANALYSIS"What do you see?What is the image all about?Are their people in the image?What are they doing?How are they presented?Can the image be looked at different ways?How effective is the image as a visual message?"VISUAL ANALYSIS" How is the image composed? What is in the background and what is in theforeground? What are the most important visual? "IMAGE SOURCE" Where did you find the image? What information does the source provide about theorigins of the image? Is the source reliable and trustworthy? Was the image found in an image database or was itbeing use in another context to convey meaning? "TECHNICAL QUALITY" Is the image large enough to suit your purpose? Are the color, light and balance, true? Is the image a quality digital image without pixelation ordistortion? Is the image ina file format you can use? "CONTEXTUAL INFO" What information accompanies the image? Does the text change how you see the image? How? IS the textual information intended to be factual an inform ot isintended to influence what and how you see? What kind of context does the information provide? Does it answer the questions where, how and whyTo evaluate messages and images of different types of textreflecting different culture the following should do:Understand how the specified cultures live.How the people in the specified group communicate eachother.Learn the symbolism Of their culture.Be aware in every detail such as artifact, language, andsymbolism.Get the meanings being addressed by the imagesGet the important elements conveyed by the imagesGetting the audience for me imagesAdditional tips in evaluating images;Get the meanings being addressed by theimages2. Get the important elements conveyed by theimages3. Getting the audience for the imagesThe interactions between nonverbal andverbal forms of communication, more inparticular the relations between visualsymbols other than writing and the recordingof speech in writing, are important for theevaluation of both images and texts.Accor&ng to some. medieval images mav be read'. According to Others. theperception of images is fundamentally different from that of texts.Do images have a morphology (colours, lines, planes), a syntax andOf their own? In other words: do both texts and images havea grammar'? Is it useful to speakof visual literacy'? Can texts be considered as images? HOW are texts and images perceived?DO they communicate different kinds Of messages?Can an inv's message be put into In which social contexts does medieval man prefer the visual to the textual?What about the interplay of texts and images (eg in rituals and ceremonies)? Do we an evolution in the perceptimof images due to the developntentof a literate mentality?WHAT IS CULTURAL TEXT?Cultural texts are those objects, actions,and behaviors that reveal culturalmeanings. A photo is an image, but isalso a cultural text, a picture with culturalinformation beyond just the picture itself.Food and clothing also suggest culturalinformation, and it doesn't stop there. The entireplace and space, all of the people and interaction,all of the rituals and rules and the various forms inwhich they manifest themselves, are "readable"texts, suitable for observation and analysis by theethnographer and writer.SAMPLE IDENTIFICATION OF A CULTURAL TEXTTake a look around the room or place you are in right now and brieflycatalog the people and/or things you see. These objects and actions arecultural texts. In traditional American college classroom, there are somecultural texts that are fairly standard: tables and chairs or desks; brightlighting; black or white board to write on. Your class room may also be a'smart room', complete with a computer or LCD projector. There may bewindows, one or two doors. The floor may or may not be carpeted. Therewill also be the presence of decoration—paint, tile, etc. A space may ormay not be void of people, who are also considered to be cultural texts.Their actions, arrangements and demographics reflect how the space isused. What is in a space and what happens in the space are all culturaltexts that are available for analysis. In other words, the space and objectswith in it are "readable" cultural texts. They say some thing about thepurpose, needs, and perhaps even values and beliefs of the people whooccupy it.THE IDENTIFICATION OF CULTURAL TEXTS WILL BE ABSOLUTELYNECESSARY, BUT THEY ARE FAIRLY EASY TOIDENTIFY ONCE YOU GET THE HANG OF IT.If your classroom is traditional, there will be places forpeople to sit, and surfaces on which to write. What wemay not all share is the form of these seats and surfacesand the formation of these seats in the room. Look aroundand take note: Are there individual desks, or tables andchairs? Can you move seats into different arrangements?Are there computers? How are the desks arranged?Where do the students sit? Where does the instructorsit/stand?Analysis can be challenging because we have all agreed to the meaning whichwe take them for granted.For example, it is most likely that you have never entered a classroom and beenall that confused about where you should sit or what part Of the space isintended for the instructor It is also most probably true that whether theclassroom desks are arranged in rows, or in a circle, students will always leavethe "front" of the room for the instructor and arrange themselves at a distancefrom the instructor. There is an invisible buffer zone around the teacher spacethat students seem to acknowledge, yet it is not some thing they discuss andagree on before they enter the room. These things speak to the strong messageof hierarchy and authority set through the way the furniture is organized in theclass room space and how well it connects to the students' existing beliefs aboutthe positions they and their teachers occupy in that space. This largerobservation, then, one that goes beyond the mere description Of what happensto suggest a reason why this is how and why certain behavior occurs, is thestarting point for cultural analysis.The analysis continues as you work to ask even more questions: Are there any works of art or books or media that pro videinsight into the values and ideas of the people there? How do your classmates or other people around you presentthemselves through their clothing?What messages are you "reading" from them? How might theybe "reading" you? These types of questions are really just the beginning as youidentify the variety of cultural texts available to you in yourresearch.As a anddeeper meaning in artifacts (things) and behaviors. Artifacts at a site may seem so "normal" to the people who usethem that they don't even realize they carry any meaning. Asreader and researcher of cultural texts (artifacts, styles, rituals,behaviors, expressions, etc.), you will have to interpret as youobserve while attempting at the same time to under stand howthe community you are observing interprets their own culturalpatterns. Whether you are an insider (a member of thecommunity) or an outsider (an observer of the community),when you present your study/research, you will attempt to tellthe story of how things look from the inside.DETECTING BIAS IN THEMEDIADETECTING BIAS IN THE MEDIA Media bias is ubiquitous (everywhere)and not easy to detect. It is alwaysuseful to compare several sources ofinformation and, in doing so, itbecomes clear that media coverage isnever completely objective.Media have tremendous power in settingcultural guidelines and in shapingpolitical discourse. It is essential thatnews media, along with otherinstitutions, are challenged to be fair andaccurate.Bias by omission:For every news story that is selected, there aremany others that are left out. Do the news storiesyou see show a balanced view of real life? Whatare the characteristics they have in common?(e.g., Are they mostly about violence, famouspeople, wealth?) Do some news sources includeitems that are ignored by others? Bias by emphasis.What stories are on the front page or "at the top ofthe hour?" Which stories get the largest headlines,or the first and longest coverage on TV or radio?Consider how this placement influences people'ssense of what is important. Bias by use of language:The use of labels such as "terrorist,""revolutionary," or "freedom fighter" cancreate completely different impressionsof the same person or event. Bias in photos:Unflattering pictures can create badimpressions, and partial pictures of scenescan completely change the context of anevent.Bias in the source:An article about a cure for cancer written by a drugcompany is not the same as an article by an independentresearcher. Often, private companies, governments,public relations firms, and political groups produce pressreleases to gain media exposure and to influence thepublic. Bias by headlines:Some headlines can be deceptive, as their mainpurpose is to grab attention. Many people readonly the headlines, which can create a distortedsense of what is really going on, or turn a nonevent into a sensational event. Bias by repetition:The repetition of a particular event or idea can leadpeople to believe that it is true, very widespread,and much more important than it really is.Bias in numbers and statistics: Statistics need to be interpreted; they are often used to createfalse impressions. Of the following statements, which statisticwould you use to try to convince someone that the deathpenalty is a good idea? —Almost 30% of those surveyed support the death penalty — More than 70% of those surveyed are against the deathpenalty. Bias in diversity:What is the race and gender diversity at the news outletyou watch compared to the communities it serves? Howmany producers, editors or decisionmakers at newsoutlets are women, people of color or openly gay orlesbian? In order to fairly represent diC erent communities,news outlets should have members of those communitiesin decisionmaking positions.Bias from the point of view: Political coverage often focuses on how issues affect politiciansor corporate executives rather than those directly affected bythe issue. For example, many stories on parental notification ofabortion emphasized the atough choice" confronting malepoliticians while quoting no women under 18—those with themost at stake in the debate. Economics coverage usually looksat how events impact stockholders rather than workers orconsumers. Demand that those affected by the issue have a voice incoverageDIFFERENT TYPE OF TEXTNarrative Descriptive Directive Expository  ArgumentativeNarrative textsNarrative texts have to do with realworld events and time.They may be fictional (fairy tales, novels) or non fictional(newspaper report). They are characterised by asequencing of events expressed by dynamic verbs and byadverbials such as "and then", "first", "second", "third"Example: First we packed our bags and then we called ataxi. After that we... etc.Descriptive textsDescriptive texts are concerned with the location of persons andthings in space. They will tell us what lies to the right or left, in thebackground or foreground, or they will provide backgroundinformation which, perhaps, sets the stage for narration. It isimmaterial whether a description is more technicalobjective ormore impressionistic subjective. 6 Descriptive texts State orpositional verbs plus adverbial expressions are employed indescriptions Examples: 1) The operation panel is located on therighthand side at the rear; 2) New Orleans lies on the Mississippi.Directive textsDirective texts are concerned with concrete future activity.Central to these texts are imperatives (Hand me thepaper) or forms which substitute for them, such as politequestions (Would you hand me the paper?) or suggestiveremarks (l wonder what the paper says about theweather).Narrative, descriptive and directive texts havegrammatical forms associated with them which may beexpanded to form sequences of a textual natureThey are all centered around realworld events andthings. In contrast, expository and argumentative texts arecognitively oriented, as they are concerned withexplanation and persuasion, which are both mentalprocesses.Expository textsExpository texts identify and characterize phenomena. They include text formssuch as definitions, explications, summaries and many types of essay.Expository texts may be subjective (essay) or objective (summary, explication,definition) may be analytical (starting from a concept and then characterizing itsparts; e.g. definitions) or synthetic (recounting characteristics and ending with anappropriate concept or conclusion; e.g. summaries) are characterized by stateverbs and epistemic modals (Pop music has a strong rhythmic beat; Texts mayconsist of one or more sentences) or by verbs indicating typical activities orqualitiesEVALUATING MESSAGES AND/OR IMAGES OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF TEXTS REFLECTINGDIFFERENT CULTURESWHAT ARE MEDIA MESSAGES?Media messages contain information and ideas that are shared to a large audience of people.If these are not scrutinized properly, they may become agents of misinformation and leadpeople to form wrong judgement and images on the subject of the wrongly presented mediamessage.By critically evaluating media messages, we ensure that the ideas presented are accurate,relevant and appropriate to be posted or shared with everyone.“EVALUATING MESSAGES”Why do we evaluate messages?The importance of evaluating the effectiveness of messages is by developing and usingstrategic questions to identify strength and weaknesses.“STRATEGIES FOR EVALUATING A MESSAGE”How do we evaluate messages?In order to evaluate whether a message is effective, we can ask ourselves a series of questionswhich reflect a message’s simplicity, specificity, structure and stickiness.FOUR MAIN QUALITIES FOR AN EFFECTIVE MESSAGE:1.Simplicity – in order that the message have simplicity, we should ask ourselves twoquestions: is the purpose evident is the core message clear?2.SPECIFICITY – Refers to our choices of language is specific we may ask ourselves: is language specific? is language concrete, rather than abstract? does it use words which have additional meanings and could perhaps be misconstructed?3.STRUCTURE – Ideas should be organized and easy to follow. do the messages have structure? is there a more effective way to arrange the ideas?4.STICKINESS – The messages should display coherent and unity of ideas. does the idea of the message flow smoothly?“EVALUATING IMAGES”It is important to critically evaluate images you use for research. Study and presentationimages should be evaluated like any other source, such as journal articles or books, todetermine their quality, reliability, and appropriateness. Visual analysis is animportant step in evaluating an image and understanding its meaning.Three steps of evaluating an image:1.Identifying source2.Interpret contextual information3.Understand implicationsANALYZING THE TEXT/IMAGES:“CONTENT ANALYSIS”What do you see?What is the image all about?Are their people in the image?What are they doing?How are they presented?Can the image be looked at different ways?How effective is the image as a visual message?“VISUAL ANALYSIS”How is the image composed?What is in the background and what is in the foreground?What are the most important visual?“IMAGE SOURCE”Where dis you find the image?What information does the source provide about the origins of the image?Is the source reliable and trustworthy?Was the image found in an image database or was it being use in another context to conveymeaning?“TECHNICAL QUALITY”Is the image large enough to suit your purpose?Is the color, light and balance, true?Is the image a quality digital image without pixilation or distortion?Is the image in a file format you can use?“CONTEXTUAL INFO”What information accompanies the image?Does the text change how you see the image? How?Is the textual information intended to be factual an inform or is intended to influence whatand how you see?What kind of context does the information provide?Does it answer the questions where, how and why?To evaluate messages and images of different types of text reflecting different culture thefollowing should do: 1.Understand how the specified cultures live. 2.How the people in the specified group communicate each other. 3.Learn the symbolism of their culture. 4.Be aware in every detail such as artifact, language, and symbolism. 5.Get the meanings being addressed by the images 6.Get the important elements conveyed by the images 7.Getting the audience for the imagesADDITIONAL TIPS IN EVALUATING IMAGES:1.Get the meanings being addressed by the images2.Get the important elements conveyed by the images3.Getting the audience for the images“The interactions between nonverbal and verbal forms of communication, more in particular therelations between visual symbols other than writing and the recording of speech in writing, areimportant for the evaluation of both images and texts.”According to some, medieval images may be 'read'. According to others, the perception of images isfundamentally different from that of texts. Do images have a morphology (colors, lines, planes), a syntax and semantics of their own? In other words: do both texts and images have a 'grammar'? Is it useful to speak of 'visualliteracy'? Can texts be considered as images? How are texts and images perceived? Do they communicate different kinds of messages? Can an image's message be put into words? In which social contexts does medieval man prefer the visual to the textual? What about the interplay of texts and images (e.g. in rituals and ceremonies)? Do we observe an evolution in the perception of images due to the development of a literatementality?WHAT IS CULTURAL TEXT?Cultural texts are those objects, actions, and behaviors that reveal cultural meanings. Aphoto is an image, but is also a cultural text, a picture with cultural information beyondjust the picture itself.Food and clothing also suggest cultural information, and it doesn’t stop there. The entireplace and space, all of the people and interaction, all of the rituals and rules and thevarious  forms  in  which  they  manifest  themselves,  are “readable” text, suitable for observation and analysis by the ethnographer and writer.SAMPLE IDENTIFICATION OF A CULTURAL TEXT Take a look around the room or place you are in right now and briefly catalog the people and/or things you see. These objects and actions are cultural texts. In traditional American college classroom, there are some cultural texts that are fairly standard: tables and chairs or desks; bright lighting; black or white board to write on. Your class room may also be a 'smart room', complete with a computer or LCD projector. There may be windows, one or two doors. The floor may or may not be carpeted. There will also be the presence of decorationpaint, tile, etc. A space may or may not be void of people, who are also considered to be cultural texts. Their actions, arrangements and demographics reflect how the space is used. What is in a space and what happens in the space are all cultural texts that are available for analysis. In other words, the space and objects with in it are "readable" cultural texts. They say something about the purpose, needs, and perhaps even values and beliefs of the people who occupy it.THE IDENTIFICATION OF CULTURAL TEXTS WILL BE ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY, BUT THEY ARE FAIRLY EASY TO IDENTIFY ONCE YOU GET THE HANG OF IT. If your classroom is traditional, there will be places for people to sit, and surfaces on which towrite. What we may not all share is the form of these seats and surfaces and the formation of theseseats in the room. Look around and take note: Are there individual desks, or tables and chairs? Canyou move seats into different arrangements? Are there computers? How are the desks arranged?Where do the students sit? Where does the instructor sit/stand?ANALYSIS CAN BE CHALLENGING BECAUSE WE HAVE ALL AGREED TO THE MEANING WHICHWE TAKE THEM FOR GRANTED. For example, it is most likely that you have never entered a classroom and been all thatconfused about where you should sit or what part of the space is intended for the instructor. It isalso most probably true that whether the classroom desks are arranged in rows, or in a circle,students will always leave the "front" of the room for the instructor and arrange themselves at adistance from the instructor. There is an invisible buffer zone around the teacher space thatstudents seem to acknowledge, yet it is not something they discuss and agree on before they enterthe room. These things speak to the strong message of hierarchy and authority set through the waythe furniture is organized in the class room space and how well it connects to the students' existingbeliefs about the positions they and their teachers occupy in that space. This larger observation,then, one that goes beyond the mere description of what happens to suggest a reason why this ishow and why certain behavior occurs, is the starting point for cultural analysis.The analysis continues as you work to ask even more questions: Are there any works of art or books or media that provide insight into the values and ideas ofthe people there?How do your classmates or other people around you present themselves through theirclothing?What messages are you "reading" from them? How might they be "reading" you?These types of questions are really just the beginning as you identify the variety of culturaltexts available to you in your research. As a researcher, you will be working to uncover the stories and deeper meaning in artifacts (things)and behaviors.Artifacts at a site may seem so "normal" to the people who use them that they don't evenrealize they carry any meaning. As reader and researcher of cultural texts (artifacts, styles,rituals, behaviors, expressions, etc.), you will have to interpret as you observe whileattempting at the same time to understand how the community you are observing interpretstheir own cultural patterns. Whether you are an insider (a member of the community) or anoutsider (an observer of the community), when you present your study/research, you willattempt to tell the story of how things look from the inside.DETECTING BIAS IN THE MEDIAMedia bias is ubiquitous (everywhere) and not easy to detect. It is always useful to compare several sources of information and, in doing so, it becomes clear that media coverage is never completely objective.Media have tremendous power in setting cultural guidelines and in shaping political discourse. It is essential that news media, along with other institutions, are challenged to be fair and accurate.“BIAS IN OMMISSION:”For every news story that is selected, there are many others that are left out. Do the news stories you see show a balanced view of real life? What are the characteristics they have in common? (e.g., Are they mostly about violence, famous people, wealth?) Do some news sources include items that are ignored by others?“BIAS BY EMPHASIS:”What stories are on the front page or “at the top of the hour?” Which stories get the largest headlines, or the first and longest coverage on TV or radio? Consider how this placement influences people’s sense of what is important.“BIAS BY USE OF LANGUAGE:”The use of labels such as terrorist,” “revolutionary,” or “freedom fighter” can create completelydifferent impressions of the same person or event.“BIAS IN PHOTOS:”Unflattering pictures can create bad impressions, and partial pictures of scenes can completely change the context of an event.“BIAS IN THE SOURCE:”An article about a cure for cancer written by a drug company is not the same as an article byan independent researcher. Often, private companies, governments, public relations firms, and political groups produce press releases to gain media exposure and to influence the public.“BIAS BY HEADLINES:”Some headlines can be deceptive, as their main purpose is to grab attention. Many people read only the headlines, which can create a distorted sense of what is really going on, or turn a nonevent into a sensational event.“BIAS BY REPITITION:”The repetition of a particular event or idea can lead people to believe that it is true, very widespread, and much more important than it really is.“BIAS IN NUMBERS AND STATISTICS:”Statistics need to be interpreted; they are often used to create false impressions. Of the following statements, which statistic would you use to try to convince someone that the deathpenalty is a good idea?Almost 30% of those surveyed support the death penalty.More than 70% of those surveyed are against the death penalty.“BIAS IN DIVERSITY:” What is the race and gender diversity at the news outlet you watch compared to thecommunities it serves? How many producers, editors or decisionmakers at news outlets arewomen, people of color or openly gay or lesbian? In order to fairly represent different communities,news outlets should have members of those communities in decisionmaking positions.“BIAS FROM THE POINT OF VIEW:”Political coverage often focuses on how issues affect politicians or corporate executives ratherthan those directly affected by the issue. For example, many stories on parental notificationof abortion emphasized the "tough choice" confronting male politicians while quoting nowomen under 18those with the most at stake in the debate. Economics coverage usuallylooks at how events impact stockholders rather than workers or consumers.Demand that those affected by the issue have a voice in coverage.5 DIFFERENT TYPES OF TEXTSNarrative   is a way of presenting connected events in order to tell a good story. Whether it's anarrative essay, a biography, or a novel, a narrative unites distinct events by concept, idea, or plot.Common types of narratives normally contain a beginning, middle, and an end.Examples: legend, fairy tale, myth, or fableDescriptive   is to describe a person, place or thing in such a way that a picture is formed in thereader's mind. Capturing an event through descriptive writing involves paying close attention to thedetails by using all of your five senses.Examples: a story about the places visited on a family trip, someone giving a very detailed account ofan experience they hadDirective  is an order or direction issued for other by an authority. Your reason should be clearand the reason of issuing the letter must be obvious and understandable. You can also mentionthat you want follow up of the task and when it should be sent.Examples: definitions, explications, summaries Expository presents readers with important research and information about a topic. Expositorywriting gives facts and information about a topic.Examples: news articles, informational books, instruction manuals, or textbooks Argumentative  is usually defined as a type of discourse concerned with the presentation andevaluation of arguments, either rhetorical or dialectical, which show the causeeffect relationshipestablished  in  an  event  or  theory.Examples: whether students should have to wear school uniforms, “The internet is a good invention.”into the reflection that even just smallgesture that we do the nonverbal thingsthat we dowould mean differently when we look atthem from different culturalperspectivesokay and a simple gesture simple textfor that matterany kind of image would really meandifferentlydepending on the cultural lens that weare actually seeing it fromso this is where we start off right wehave to evaluate messagesthrough the cultural lenses that we havenot onlythrough our own perspectives or else weare notgoing to really come up with somethingsuccessful in terms of our communicativeobjectivesbecause you know you have to know yourtarget audience you have to know whoyou're talking to you have to knowlike where you're at again context rightyou have to really explore the all thevarious componentsthat is there that are there in thecommunicationuh scenario that you are in sowith that said okay we have to look intoseveral factors okay several landscapesthat make up our communication we haveto reallybe uh reflective enough we have toreally beevaluative enough in terms of themessages that they send outin terms of the intentions that theyhave becauseagain different texts reflect differentcultureshence they reflect different messagesokayso again same gesturecan mean so many things depending onwhere you're coming from so let'sdiscuss linguistic landscape okayso linguistic landscape is a conceptokay or a term used to describe thedisplayedlanguage in a particular space so forexample advertisementsbillboards and other signs okay sowe see that language is all around us intextual form rightand it's displayed you know on shopwindows and commercial signs postersyou know traffic signs officesschools or whatnot and most of the timewe do not really pay attention to themright we don't really pay attention tothesebut if we do okay if we dowe are looking into the linguisticlandscapeokay so in the recent years a lot ofresearchers are focusing now on thelinguistic landscapes of a certainuh a certain place and this actuallyhelps them understand like whatkind of culture that place hasokay depending on the displayed languagethat they have so it's actuallylinguistic linguistic landscape isactually a relatively new branch ofsocial linguisticsokay and it emerged due to increasinginterest in multilingualism orbilingualism orlanguages or globalization the thingsthat we've been discussing so farright and this is becauselanguage has the tendencies to actuallyinteract and create an environment or aglobal environment for that matter so tonot make thingsvery much complicated don't beoverwhelmed by the the termbecause it just means the language ofpublic science okayof public road signs of advertisingbillboards of street namesof place names commercial shops sciencepublic science and government buildingsand these all all combine to form thelinguisticlandscape of a given territory or urbanor region agglomeration so let's take alook at the different examples oflinguistic landscape okayfirstly would be the billboards okay wealluh could understand uh that billboardsare actuallysending out public messages and theyusually arein public places and they they are inpublic placesand they have to reach wideyou know range of audiences okay that'swhy they arein the first place uh put as billboardsokayso this billboard i like it because it'sactually from unicefand it functions as cost support andit urges us to saveuh generation covid next up uh aresignages so signages like thisuh would also be sending out a messageit's very selfexplanatory when you seethisright um and upon seeing an image likethisyou would automatically know whatis about that place that it's slipperyandyou you have to be careful and that youdon't reallyrun in that place etc etc okayso next um type or example of linguisticlandscapeis this one okay regulationsso buses only no smokingdo not enter blah blah blah okay soeverything that actually regulates ouractions or orour movement or whatnot thatis uh a kind of landscape as well okaysame thing with street names okay streetnames are alsopainting the linguistic landscape of acertain territoryand graffiti okay even graffitiis actually an example of a linguisticlandscaperight so sometimes graffitiis actually very powerful as well solater i'm still going to be discussingmore of graffitiin terms of the kinds of signs all rightnext up isgeosemiotics okay again do not beoverwhelmed withthis particular concept or termbecause it's just pretty easy tounderstand okay when we say geosemioticsthis is the study of the social meaningof the material placement of scienceand discourses and for actions in thematerial world that's according to muniand evans 2015.now to put it simply just think aboutthis okay we live in a world that's fullof signsand we do not really pay attention tothese signs okayand sometimes we're not really awarethat they're there that they're eventhere okayso for example if you look around youright nowyou have a bottle of water on your deskor on your table or at the side of yourbed but you don't evenreally care to check the label or youdon't really put so muchattention to the label or theinformation that is in that bottleso for example um you don't really payattention to how many times it should berecycledthe details of its logo or its brand orwhatnot becauseyou know it's typical things that wereally encounter or use oror consume every day but the thing isgeosemiotics is the one that actuallypays too much attention to these detailsandit actually um explores themeaning of the placement of thesesymbols or signs in our lives okayso actually geosymbiotics is veryinterestingbecause you may start to like see moreof the world around you and you may youknow see more signson your way to school or on your way tothe marketor even in your own home to concretizethat'svery abstract explanation i know okay ihave included the principles ofgeosemiotics okayby the way perhaps it would help if iwould digest theuh the terms structurally so we havehere geodewhich means like location or earthlike it's where where you are actuallyuh seeing the signs and then semioticsstudy of signs and symbols okay sothe meaning of this symbol semioticsaccording to where they are at or theplace that they areput in that's geosemiotics that isactually pretty much it okaythe signs and their placement in ourlivesokay so let's have the principles firstis indexicality this principle meuh this principle basically states thatin every worldin our you know in our world every signhas its meaningbut its meaning is actually uh assignedby the place the sign is in or the signwas put in so for example you see a redlightat the junction automatically you wouldknow thatit says drivers stopokay driver stop that's what the redlight tells youright drivers stop but if you see a redlight likefor example at home or in the forestthe meaning would change because it'snow placed somewhere elsethis means that the placement okayautomatically changes the meaning of acertain red lightand that is what the principle ofindexicality means okaymeaning was given to a sign by a placethe sign was put inso the second principle is dialogicalityandthis basically means that signs havedouble meaning and they correspond witheach otherso double meaning you have the same signbut then when you put them somewhereelse okayit will basically have another meaningso that's where the double meaning comesfrom for exampleyou say slow children at play if you putit near a playground it would mean thatyou have to slow down because childrenare playing nearby right but if you putit for examplein a sped school you can actuallyinterpretslow children at play so you couldbe informed that there are childrenperhaps with disabilitywho couldn't really walk fast orrun fast that are playing there okay soslow childrenat play so it's dialogical because it'sthe same signbut it can have double meaning sothirdly isselection so this principle states thatone does not see all signs okay it justbasically means that despite the factthat there arelots and lots of signs around us youdon't see them allokay you don't see them all and you arethe one who decides which one you donoticeand which one you ignore okay which oneyou really put more attention to andwhich one youjust you know shake off so for exampleum you are a nonsmoker okay you're anonsmoker soalmost always don't really care whetheryou see a sign ofyou know smoking area because you're notyou're a nonsmoker so you're not goingto be affected whether there's uh anarea for smoking or not okay so thatsign we usuallydon't really notice it or we usuallyignore it or we don't really pay muchmuch attention to it okay same thing forexample if you belong to this class andthere's an announcement on big sky thatthis class has been dissolvedyou don't really put so much attentionto it because you're not really affectedright so you're being selective aboutwhat to notice and what to ignorebecause it all depends on what you needat the momentor what you really what's what'simportant to youor you know um what's urgentor something like that okay so we beselective depending on our ownpreferencesright let's talk about kinds of signs sothere are different kinds of signsum and a lot of them are veryselfexplanatorylet's have this one first okay so thisare theregulatory signs so again regulatorysignsare signs that indicates authorityokay and they are also legal andofficial prohibitionsokay so there do not enter yeah thingslike thisthey are um they actually imposeauthorityat the same time they are prohibitionsorry there they are prohibitions thatare legaland that are official next are theinfrastructural signs so againinfrastructural signs aresigns that indicates maintenance ofbuildings of infrastructures obviouslyand they label things like this okayand um it's also to give warning tosorryit's also to give warning to people wehave commercialokay commercial signs or like this gayyou see logos of establishments you seepromotions like here you see herewhat the event is like okay becausecommercial signs areobviously those signs that advertise orpromoteproducts events or services okayand lastly and which is a veryinteresting as well as controversial onek is the transgressive signsokay the transgressive signs areactually something thatdeconstructs the traditional orconventionalokay semiotics and this is doneintentionally or accidentallyokay so they break okay they break theconventionalsigns okay so if you look at this theyreally breakthe conventional science okay and umgraffiti is one good example oftransgressive scienceokay because this is an unsanctioned umunsanctioned urban text andto me it's actually a way to empower thedisempoweredokay again this is actually somethingempowering to the disempowered peopleand this allows them to leave a visiblemarkokay this allows them to protest okaythis allows them to disruptthe landscape that is increasinglyoccupiedand commanded by the increasingly richand powerful and powerful so those arethe types of signsagain regulatory infrastructuralcommercial and transgressive okay sonext up we have the online landscape andthis is veryvery very familiar with us especiallythe netherzensum right now we are actually operatingour educational system withinum the online landscape or using big skyand that is uh a you knowhuge move of the university to actuallyaddress the problems in education thatwe're experiencing during this pandemicokayso apart from big sky of course which isan educational platform you have googleclassroom you can havezoom etc etc then you have umthe entertainment platforms like youtubeyou havethe video sharing platform you havetwitter a micro blogging platform youhaveinstagram a picture sharing platform youhave facebook you have linkedinand a lot of other social medialandscapes that we have right now andwe've been discussing what the power ofsocial media is and how it can actuallyinfluence the mindsetand the psyche of people and umthe online landscape is actually a thingright nowand it's something that really uhyou know is embedded now in ourcultural communication okay and the morewe delve into social media the more weexpand our cultural perspectives becauseit'sreally endless possibilities out thereokay you canmeet so many people from different partsof the world and you can actuallyshare culture and reshare culture fromdifferent parts of the worldworld through social media activity 4.1in the mojoactually is about memes right and weknow that memes areone of the uh tools in an onlinelandscapeand you know we should say that memesare very contagious patterns of culturalinformationand it instantly is passed you knowfrom mind to mind and it's it has thecapacity toshape our mindsets our behaviors and ouractions now as the last part of thislecture we are going to brushthrough the questions that we ask whenwe try to evaluateokay or analyze a particular message ofmediaokay and this could be very flexiblethis could be applied toyou know virtually any text that youencounterso how do we evaluate so there areactually uh principles that we alsoassumewhen we look at media and theseprinciples actually dictate whatquestions to ask so that we can evaluateand analyzethese particular messages properly andwith guidance okay so the firstprinciple is that all media messages areconstructed sothe first thing you ask is what is themessage of the text rightum to what purpose is the text uhcreated or constructed what message doesit send out to youokay or to the community and then secondhow effectively does it representrealitybecause again when we are trying toconstructsomething that carries a message or acommunicationwe are trying to represent reality okayso how effective does it represent thatrealityokay third how is the messageconstructed sohow meaning what are the processes thatit went through okaywhat is the system of the constructionokay uhis the is the construction through oralor verbaluh how do you send it out okay so allthethe house for that matterright so for example you've gotbrochures okay brochures are kinds oftexts that are very visualand they are actually disseminated tolarge number of peopleand um it's constructed through writtencommunicationand it's integrated withyou know visual elements and whatnot tomake it more appealingokay so brochures are actually made foradvertisements for examplesecondly we have ummedia have embedded values and points ofviewright so with this principle you askwhat lifestyles values and points ofviews are represented in the textokay so that's very selfexplanatory andwho or whatis missing so again it's not allthe bright things that you see okay youalso see what's missing because if thereis something that ishighlighted okay or is this somethingthat's underscoredof course there might be somethingthat's being hidden or there might besomething thatis carried out as half truth okay so youhave to ask thattoo since we're talking about valuesokay nextly each person interpretsmessages differentlyso this is where call um individualdifferences come inright so individual differences we allknow are very muchinfluenced by cultural um diversitiesthat we come fromso um when we are actually trying toassume thateach person interprets a textvery differently from each other we askwhat message do you perceive from thetext you as an individualand then when you check on yourself youcheck on others nowhow might others understand itdifferently okay and whynow the answer to this why one of theanswers to thiswhy is culture we understand thingsdifferently because of culturenow if you evaluate a certain textor a certain media through this you knowask what particular cultural perspectiveor what particular cultural landscapemakes that difference possible oris that difference coming from rightnextly media have commercial ideologicalor political interestsand of course with this assumption youask what is the purpose of the text okayis it serving a vestedinterest is it serving uh an interest oflike the minority is it serving theinterestof like the disadvantaged group okay oris it justserving the interest of the trolls forexample okay so who is the targetaudience of the text of coursewho is the intended readeror listener or viewer of the text that'sbeing createdand then who might be disadvantagedagain there are certain types of textsthat might be rudethat might be offensive and that mightbe hurtfulto some um racesgenders or whatnot so you have to bevery sensitive about itokay who created the text actually thecreatoruh plays a very big role in terms ofanalyzing the intentions because whoevercreated the text would havethe you know the say in terms of theintentions whythat particular media or text is createdlastly media messages are constructedusinga creative language having its own rulesso number one you ask what techniquesare used and whyso you ask for exampleum coloring techniques you askvisual arts technique and why are whythose colorsyou can you know because colors alsosuggest messages skate colors themselvesyou know are very powerful messagesalready when you send them acrossokay so that's just one technique okaythere are a lot of other techniquesof course secondly you ask how effectivewere the techniques in supporting themessages or themes of the textand really what other ways of presentingokaycan we deliver the message all right sothat's it for this lecture i hope thatyou've learned somethingand um to end with a positive noteactually not a humorous note umi will leave you a meme coming from ouronline landscapethere you go oh it's not seen butit says i don't always plagiarize butwhen i doi toggle italize yeah okayso could hi everybody i hope thatum you have learned something aboutmedia literacyand for us to criticize and analyze thepotential effects of textswe have to be media literate and we haveto askcritical questions okay we have to notsettle for less and we have to be umvigilant okay about the things that weare consuming evaluatingmessages would lead us to be moreaccountable andresponsible users ofmedia instead of media controlling ourlives we have to controlmedia PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATIONEvaluating Messages and or/ Images of DifferentTypes of Texts Reflecting Different Cultures1Course ModuleModule 69b Evaluating Messages and or/ Images ofDifferent Types of Texts Reflecting Different CulturesAt the end of this module, you are expected to:1. Recognize the different types of texts reflecting different cultures,2. Identify cultural text, and3. Evaluate messages/images of different types of text reflecting different culture.IntroductionA "text" isn't limited to something written down. A text can be a film, an artifact, anything in alanguage and culture that conveys meaning. Think about the texts that you use in your languageclassroom: What's in the textbook? What do you read in class or even at home? How do youdescribe the classroom, its design? Why do you think the chairs are placed facing the tables? Thosequestions, with its finite answer would tell you that there are texts that are reflection of one’s ownculture.Cultural TextCultural texts are those objects, actions, and behaviors that reveals cultural meaning. Aphoto is an image, but is also a cultural text, a picture with cultural information beyond just thepicture itself. Food, house and clothing also suggest information regarding culture and it does notstop there. The entire space and place, including the people and their interaction, all the ritualsand rules and its various forms in which they manifest themselves, are “readable” texts. Although,not every text has a particular cultural relevance.Identification of cultural text is somewhat easy. When you look around the classroom orthe place you are right now and see the people or things around you, those you see are culturaltext. Even the spaces that may or may not void to people are considered to be cultural text, thearrangement and demographic shows how space is used. What is in the space and what happensto the space is all cultural text or an image that are available for analysis. In other words, the spaceand objects within it are “readable” cultural texts. The purpose, needs, values and even the beliefsof the people who occupy it had something to say about it.Returning to the instance of classroom, consider the following questions: Why do you know where to sit and what it means to sit in front, middle or back of theclassroom? How was the room decorated? Can you give conclusion why?As you consider the questions, you would know that those images, designs, reasons and beliefsare there, and they are arranged that way because its cultural background says otherwise.Understanding Different Types of TextsAs mentioned a while ago, a text can come from any form and be any kind of writing. It canbe letters, adverts, userguides, emails, post cards, notes and magazine articles. But then, a text isnot limited to something written down. It can be a film, artifact, or anything in a language andculture that conveys meaning.Understanding what kind of text helps to understand the purpose why it was written.For example: An advert is written to in order to influence someone to buy, therefore it is made topersuade. A userguide consists of instruction of how to make things run, or how to cook food forinstance. It is write to give instructions. A formal (business) letter is sometimes written to inform about something. A personal letter can also be written to someone describing a holiday vacation.Persuasive textsA persuasive text encourages you to do or want something. In writing such, take note that youmay use of proper capitalization, proper punctuation marks and may also use repeated words orquestions to catch attention. Adjectives must be used as often as possible so that it may soundattractive. One sided arguments help to make the text credible. PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATIONEvaluating Messages and or/ Images of DifferentTypes of Texts Reflecting Different Cultures3Course ModuleInstructive textsAn instructive text is written to instruct someone to do something, or relating toprocedures to be done. The tone of words is commanding and may use formal and direct words.Extra words are not needed especially the use of adjectives.Informative textsAn informative text informs using words of fact and step by step procedures. Commonexample of it is the announcement posted in the bulletin board, or news broadcast in thetelevision.Descriptive textsThe role of descriptive text is to describe a person, things or an event by using adjectives oradverbs to clearly emphasize the description process. The writer, upon writing the text clearlywanted the reader to imagine what is like and how is like by using describing words that appealsto the five senses of humans.Evaluating Messages/Images of Different Types of Texts Reflecting Different CultureFig.1 “A Male Restroom Sign”We all know the sign posted above, it is a clear picture or an image of a man. If we saw thiskind of signage, we understand that the image pertaining to is a “boys only” or “boys are allowed”.We often see this picture in the restroom. We can analyze this by asking what is the message of theimage? What is the purpose of the message? How is the message conveyed by the text/image?Who is the target audience? And what are the other ways of presenting the message?Let us see if we know this thing.1. What is the message of the text/message? Men are allowed inside.2. What is the purpose of the message? To inform that only men are allowed.3. How is the message conveyed by the text/image? By putting the image of a man and writing theword male to signify what gender is asked or emphasized.4. Who is the target audience? Everyone.5. And what are the other ways of presenting the message? Writing the words/sentences completelythat the males are allowed inside or the restroom is for males only.Evaluating Messages and Images“EVALUATING MESSAGES”*The importance of evaluating the effectiveness of our messages is by developing and using strategic questions to identify strengths and weaknesses“FOUR MAIN QUALITIES FOR AN EFFECTIVE MESSAGE”1. Simplicity2. Specificity3. Structure4. Stickiness” STRATEGIES FOR EVALUATING A MESSAGE “– In order to evaluate whether a message is effective, we can ask ourselves a series of questions which reflect a messages simplicity, specificity, structure and stickiness.1. SIMPLICITY* In order to ensure that our messages have simplicity, we shouldask ourselves two questions:– is my purpose evident?– Is my core message clear?2. SPECIFICITY*Refers to our choices of language and its usage on order to ensurelanguage is specific we may ask ourselves:– Is my language specific?– is my language concrete, rather than abstract?– am i suing words which have additional meanings and could perhaps be misconstrued?3. STRUCTURE*Ideas should be organized and easy to follow.– Does my messages have a STRUCTURE?– is there a more effective way to arrange my ideas?4. STICKINESS“EVALUATING IMAGES”* It is important to critically evaluate images you use for research, study and presentation images should be evaluated like any other source, such as journal articles or books, to determine their quality, reliability and appropriateness. Visual analysis is an important step in evaluating an image and understanding its meaning and also. there are three steps of evaluating an image and these are:1. Identifying Source2. Interpret contextual information3. Understand implications“CONTENT ANALYSIS”What do you see?What is the image all about?Are their people in the image?What are they doing?How are they presented?Can the image be looked at different ways?How effective is the image as a visual message? “VISUAL ANALYSIS”How is the image composed?Whats in the Background and what is in the foreground?What are the most important visual?“IMAGE SOURCE”Where did you find the image?What information does the source provide about the origins of the image?Is the source reliable and trustworthy?Was the image found in an image database or was it being use in another context to convey meaning?“TECHNICAL QUALITY”and how it is a reflection of theculture of a certain nationokay we will also be discussing aboutsome other thingsthereforewhat we hope to achieve for this sessionare the following we have to know thedefinition of text what does it meanwhen you say textalso we need to have a solid grasp ofwhat cultural text is as well as theelements that would make a text culturalor that would suggest the culture withinthe textnextyou will also know that about somesample text and their specific purposealso you would have an understanding ofthe different types of text so therewill be four and you will know each ofthem later onalso we would be discussing how toevaluate images or textswith different culturesall right so let's start with thedefinition of a textokayit is not limited to something writtendownactually a text can be a filman artifactor anything in a language and culturethat conveys meaningall right sothisgoesout of the box of the usualtext that we knowso the usual text that we know there areprinted words and then it's somethingthat can be digital or it's somethingthat can be a hard copy of itrightbut basing on the definition as long asa language is being used and you knowculture is being reflected in order toconvey the meaning of something it isalso categorized as a textbasically a text can be a materiallike a film an artifact a simpleannouncementright even videos can be considered youknow vlogs can be considered as textsnow on the other hand what are culturaltextsso cultural texts basically arematerialsthat convey the cultureof a certain group of people communityor even a nationalityit also refers to those objectsactions and behaviors that revealcultural meaningokayall rightso let's proceedhere aresome sample texts and their differentpurposesfor examplean advertso an advert is written an advert oradvertisement is written in order toinfluence someone to buytherefore it is made to persuadeso when we talk about persuasionit's the art of convincing someoneso when you persuade someone of courseyou have to give the benefitsof that something that you are promotingokayright sothere you gonext we have the user guide so it'sanother example but the user guide isforinstructionshow to'slike how a certain gadget runs how it isoperatedalso how to cook your cookbooks arebasically user guidesit is written to give instructionsokay so for how to's you can see thereare a lot of instructions also commandsin a sense because they would be usingverbs and then would be verystraightforward as to what you should doit's a user guideanother one is a formal business letterit is sometimes written to inform aboutsomethingso if you would remember a formalbusiness letterincludesdifferentdifferent typesdepending on the purpose of your letterokayso one type would besomething that could inform so anexample of this is an invitation letterso in an invitation letter you have togive the details thereso aside fromexpressing uh theurgency to invite someone to an eventyou of course have to give the detailsof the eventso you can have the who who are invitedaside from the one you're addressing theletter towhat what is the eventwhen will the event bewhere will it be heldand why is there such an eventnot only wh questions or words ordetails should be there but you alsohave to give the howhow are they going to sign uphow will they be able to attendokay so that's just an example of aformal business letter that is meant toinform about something in that case it'san eventnext we have a personal letter so apersonal letter can also be written tosomeone describing a holiday vacationso if you attended the previous meetingsso we have been we have discussed aboutthe personal and friendly letters andemailsso a personal letter can be anythingunder the sun can be on a variety oftopics as simple as what happened to youfor a certain day or perhaps during yourholiday vacationchristmas break summer breakso you can write about what happened toyoubecause again remember the level ofrelationship we have you have with thatperson that you're writing the letter tois something to be considered as wellokayso in a personal letter you are notexpected to use formal words you are notbound by a format but you can be veryfriendly with your tone andthe format is not something that youshould be concerned ofanyway the person will be reading thatis your friend or someone very close toyoumaybe a family memberoryeah basically someone very close to youso those are just some sample texts withtheir different purposes and thedifferent requirements that would bealigned with their purpose and of coursethe audiencenow let's move on to understandingdifferent types of textso we have fourtypes of textthe first one is persuasive followed byinstructive third we have informativeand lastly descriptiveso let's take them one by oneall right so first we have thepersuasive textso basically a persuasive text is a textthat really wants you to do somethingis really urging you to go to thatdirectionnow convincing youto do or to act upon somethingso an advert for examplethis uh advert from a famousum online shopping platformokay that you know all the dates withthe same numbers say 9 9 10 10 11 11it meansdiscounts saletherefore what's the purpose of thisadvert isfor you to be encouraged to buyall rightwe also have speeches of politiciansand not only politicians but speeches ingeneralso when you say it's a persuasive speechyou know it tries to appeal to theemotion of theaudience and it tries to convinces themthat this is somethingthis is the case this is what you shouldbelieve in as wellso it appears to encourage you to beswayed towards their directionall right skinny you can see herepoliticiansrightso if you're fond of watching ted talksso these are you can search for them inyoutubeso we have ted talks ummore often than not materials there orthe texts there are persuasive in natureokay but other speeches there orlectures can also be for another typemost likely it's persuasivenow what are some of the things that youuse in order for your persuasive text tobe more effective in a sense that youcan put emphasison some words some ideas in your textnumber one we have repeated wordsif you remember the jettison ashes byabraham lincoln so you um the famousline towards the end it's the governmentof the peopleby the people and for the people shallnot perish from the earthso you see therethe the repeated word which ispeopleand you also saw the repeated structureoff by fourso that's a preposition plus the wordpeople or the object of the prepositionso speeches would usually have thingslike that because it adds to theretention it makes you remember itbetteralso the usage of the capital lettersbut if you use this sometimes it can bemisunderstoodin a way thatyou're like shoutingso it's not limited to know thematerials or the text that we hearor that we listen to from other peoplebutit can also be from the text message asin the sms that we receiveor in the instant messages that wereceiveso when everything is in all capitalletters it's as if that person isshouting or angry about somethingright but you can also do that meaningmaybe for just one wordnot an entire sentenceso just that's just a piece of cautionnext we have the exclamation pointsso one exclamation point is enough toexpress a strong emotionright so you can see this in a lot oftext a lot of materialssay an announcement you have yourattention and then an exclamation pointso it calls your attention that you haveto read this announcementalso rhetorical questions so what arerhetorical questionsthese are questions that do not demandan answerthey do not demand interaction from theaudience but theydemandreaction or connections sorry that'sthis uh connectionso how questions likehave you experienced to be in loveorif you're not going to do it today whenso it doesn't require the audience toanswer directly the speaker ah yes ifit's not today it's going to be tomorrowmaybenoit's added in speech for emphasis to addimpact on the necessity and urgency ofwhat is being discussedokayso that's rhetoricalquestion all right so it can be used forthe introduction can also be usedtowards the endokay let's go to the next one the nextone is instructive textso for instructive textthe root word we have instructso it's full of instructions and evencommandsit is a written text to instruct someoneto do something or relating toprocedures to be doneso the tone of words is commanding andmay use formal and direct wordsso instructive texts are verystraightforwardit's really about what to doand then the series of stepsjust like in this exampleso during your visit what should you dowear a face maskkeep your distancecover your coughandhand sanitizer available insideso this is an infographic that we cansee in establishmentsas to the how as to the what to dookay the todo's whenever you'revisiting it thereso if you would noticefor instructions or commands like thisone there is an invisible subject youso you see here it's a verb already weara face masknow who is being talked towho is the subject here it's theinvisible youyou wear a face mask you keep yourdistance you cover your coughokayrecover your mouth when you coughthere you go for instructive textswe usually see instructive text inmanualsokay user guidesthat's where we see instructive textsright nextwe have informative textso for informative text it is defined asa text with which contains factualinformation and stepbystep proceduresyou might be asking i thought that wasinstructive text if we are dealing withthe proceduresin the informative textit's more detailed okayif it's going to be a morestraightforward one more in the commandsformal and direct language you have theinstructive textbut if added explanation isa given if it's more detailed you havethis step there and then there would bean explanation about itit's more informative than instructiveokayalso it contains facts so facts can bebased from researchand all other datatherefore giving you certain informationabout a topicright so informative textcan be found in textbooks actuallycan also be found insome articlesthat are meant to explain somethinglike how this process takes placeand you know alsohow this workslike thatright sayhowuh cloud seeding workswhat is cloud seedingand how is it doneso that is an informative textall right examples also we havethe things that we find in the newspaperwhether theyou know it's meant to informalso announcements reminders in bulletinboardsokaylastly we have the descriptive textso for a descriptive textit aims to describe a personthings or events by using adjectives oradverbs to clearly emphasize thedescription processokayagainyou have to take note of the wordadjectivesand also the adverbs adjectives describepersons things and events or even asituationadverbs on the other hand describeverbsadjectives and other adverbsfor example talking about theof uhyeah of a certain materialit'sit's blueokaybut then you have anotheradjective which is light say light blueokayso that level how blue is it that's anadverbrightalso how to uh describing the verb sayshe walks slowlyso how does she walk slowly slowly is anadverbwalk is a verbsolike in this examplethe basic sentence is the leaf fell offthe treeokay so in the detailed sentence we canhave adjectives and or we can addadjectives and adverbslet's say we can add what color theleaves arewhere the leaf isand we can also add how it fellof the treeall right saythe greenleafslowly fell off the treeso that's a more detailed sentenceincluding the color of the leaf and howit fell off the treeanother one we have the basic statementhis eyes were like the color of theocean on the clearest dayin this sentence it's not necessarilybasic but it's using anotheranother way to convey informationit makes use of literary or figurativelanguagewhich is for creative writing actuallyso we're like the color of the ocean andthe clearest dayso the color of the eyes were likenedto the color of the oceanall rightso this incense is a simileso that would fall under literary orfigurative language under creativewritingbut if you know if you want to bedetailed about it we could just describereally the colorso if it's the color of the ocean in theclearest day perhaps it's a vibrant bluesay his eyesthe color of his eyesis a vibrant bluetherefore it's a more detailed sentenceclearer in the sense because you havetheir specific adjectiveto describe the color of the person'seyesrightsodescriptive text um you usually havethis forsay product reviewswhere any have to give the featuresand it can also be for narrativesstoriesstories are are high in descriptionbecause you have toum you have to imagine it on your ownyou really have to know the details inorder for you to further visualize it onyour own because reading a story wouldrequire someone's imaginationright so you can be detailed like thatby making use of adjectives and adverbsnext up we have the last part which iswhat are the things that you need toconsider or the guide questions inevaluating messages or images ofdifferent types of text reflectingdifferentculture so the first question that youneed to consider is what is the messageof the text or imageso when we talk about messagewhat is it trying to sayokaynext we have the purpose of the messageso we have the different types of textsearlier we have the informativeinstructive descriptive and thepersuasiveso those are also the basic purposesso is the text meant to informis it meant to instruct is it meant topersuade or does it merely describenext how is the message conveyed by thetext or messageor imagehow is it conveyed what are the thingsthat you see in the text or the imagethatcontributed to the message of thematerialwho is the target audiencedo you think is it uh it is intended foreveryone or for a certain groupand lassie what are the other ways ofpresenting the message what are otherthings that you could think of on how itcould have been presented in a betterwayor how you could improve itspresentationor how could it bepresentedand still carry the same messageall right so let's review againwhat is the message of course it's thefirst question what is the purposehow is it conveyed what are the elementsusedwho is the target audience and lastlywhat are the other ways of presentingthe messagelet's have an exampleall rightso we usually see this incomfort roomssofirst what is the message of the text orimageso the message of this one isyou know to state that boys are allowedor the males are allowed in that areawherever you saw itokayso the purpose of the messageis basically to inform that males areallowed in that areanext the third one how is the messageconveyed by the text or imageso it made use of an imagewhich is that of the mailand it also made use of a textsaying mailwe don't see any x mark there we don'tsee anything that would signal thatthey're not allowedso perhaps this area where thisis postedis telling us thatthe male males are allowed hereso how was it conveyed the use of animage that resembled a male and also awordwhich says malenow who is the target audienceis it only specific to the malesor can the females alsounderstand thiswell the target audience can be everyonemales femaleschildrenadultsrightand what are the other ways ofpresenting the messagewell instead of using a graphic likethat and just a wordmaybea simple announcement like one sentencemales are allowed hereorthis is the malethis is for the males or this is themale's areasomething like that so it's another wayof presenting the messageokay to carry the same meaningall rightsowith that said and with the examplegiveni hope that you were able to understandhowthe purposes would work together how acertain purpose would work together witha messageand how the elements found in the textor in certain material would contributeto your understanding ofits messagealso you have to take note that wheneveryou produce or you see a material youhave to take note of your audienceso if you are to make one you have toconsider the nature of your audienceand lastly there are different ways alsoon how to present a messageso in connection with our discussionearlieryeah we have the culturalelements so you have to be observant ofhow peoplereact or how people behave becausebasically everywhere there are culturalsigns that would indicate the culture ofa certain group of people in a certainareaall rightso and lastly the text is not limited tojustmaterials that we read materials thatrequires to bea hard copy version of something can bedigital it can also have other formslike videos even films artifacts and thelikecourse purpose of communicationone entitled now different types of textreflecting different cultures so we arealready in our week eighthof ourlesson so for this week the lesson nowwill focus on the followingwe have the definition of textthe definition of cultural textsample text and their purposesunderstanding different types oftext so let's go now to our very firsttopic which is your definition oftext so by definition now a text is notlimited to something written downa text can be a filman artifactor anything in a language and culturethat conveys meaningso in yourdefinition it says now the text is notlimited to something that is writtendownwritten downso text can also go uh can also havedifferent forms as long as it is usednow to convey what we callmeaningso we should not limit ourselves thatwhen we talk about text it should onlybe in written so what you are lookinghere right now is an example of textbut it is not limited tothese kinds ofexamples it can be in a form of a filmit can be in a form of an artifactit can be now a reflectionof someone's identityas long as it conveys now what we callmeaning so they say that text is thereflection of one'sculturewhybecause by definition now let's go toyour cultural text by definitionit is now or these are now objectsactions and behaviors that revealculturalmeaning so as we've said a while agotext is not purely writtenit can make up any form it can be in anyform as long as it conveys meaning andin terms of your cultural text we haveobjects actions andbehaviorsso when you go now to your house or whenyou observe your communitythe food that you eat the houses thatyou see the clothing that you wearactually provides meaningful informationabout one's culturewhen you go to other countries you go toother places that is not the same ofwhat culture you have in your areayou will notice now that there is adifference in terms of the food that thethey are eating the types of houses thatthey are living in the structures or thecontents of the house and even theclothingsokay so those are examples of objectsnow that can be definedas your cultural texts how about when wetalk about actions and behavior so whenwe talk about actionsand behaviors this pertains to yourreadable textso when we talk about readable textthese are actually what we observe nowor what we usually seewhen there are certain people gatheringin specific cultureslike when youwatchkorean moviesyou will see now that when they seesomeone or they meet now someone theytend to bow down as a sign of respectfor that another person or for thatperson that is an uh that is an exampleof youractions and behaviors in your culturaltexts okay it also manifests now in thespace or the place that they arethey live inso when yousearch now different countries ordifferent places when you let checktheir places now or their spaces it isdifferent from yourtype of place or type of space in yourcommunitybecause those kinds ofplaces now or those spaces whatever yousee therealso now shows theirculturewe also have now your ritualsyour the rules or the interactions thatthey do those are examples of yourreadable text in your actions andbehaviors these are the things thatreveals nowtheir identities or their cultures orprovide nowexplanations about their culture so forus to show respectto other people now or to someone who isolder than us we sometimes saypo in opookay when we're talking to an adult orsomeone older than us we use the termthose uncles aunties those are the termsthat we usually use that shows now ourcultural background that in our cultureto show respect this is what we do sothose are your culturaltexts so it's not mainly nowwritten items but it's also the thingsthat surrounds the people such as theobjects the actions andbehaviors and it manifests now once wesee it once weuh visualize now these things or once weencounter or understand these things itbecomesyour readable text okay just simplylooking at it you are able to see nowthat this kind of gesture shows a signof respect or these kinds of rules noworwritten while shows these kinds ofthings so that is yourculturaltextokaynext nowso text now happens or can come indifferent forms as what we've said awhile ago so it can also be in adifferent kind of writing so writing nowvaries depending again to the situationdepending now on the environment we arein or depending now on the use of thosetexts so to better understand thiswe need to or do to better understandnow the kind of textwe need now to understand why it waswritten why these kinds of texts werewritten on the first place so one goodexample we have here is an advertso your advert or your advertisements soadvertisements can be in a form ofwritten orwe can also now see it in a form ofyourtv advertisements radio advertisementsbut adverts now are written or are usedin order to influence someone to buy orto persuade now someone to buy certainproductsor to persuade someonetoor to encourage someone tojoin a specific group tolisten now to a specific song that isyour advertso advertsare mainly focused now on persuasion sowhen you seean advertforchristmas saleso most of us were familiar with onlinebuying so we have shoppilazada food panda so those kinds ofthings or those kinds of applicationsuh they provide what we call advert whatare the adwords now found on those kindsof things we haveonce you open now the app you will seethere 11 11 sale 11 11 christmas sale soautomatically what will come to yourmind when you see the word sale is theprices are lower lower compared to thenormalpricesokay so it will encourage you now onceyou see these things like when you wantto buy a certain product and you sawthat the price is lower compared tothe original price it might persuade youor encourage you to buy so those areyour adverts adverts now are persuasivetypes of textsthatencourages you now to buy something orto do something because of theadvert another example we have is a userguideokay a user guide is mainly found onor in tourismokay so we usually see this in tourismlike when we visit now certain places orwhen we visit certain countries orcertain areas in ourcommunity that we are not familiar withthey usually provide what we call youruser guide okay so a user guide isusually provides now instructions on howto how to make thingshow to cook things or how to go tospecific places like when you're notfamiliar with the area and you want togo now visit a certain place it willprovide you directionsor instructions on how to go to thoseplaces those are what we call user guideokay user guides are mainly used toprovide what we call instructionsso instructions on howwe cook things so if you sawnow a certain dish and you want to copynow that dishyou will be searching for the user guideon how to create that certain dishor if we want tocreate now a box or we want to createdrawerswe want to do it our own or do it yourswe want to do the do it yourselfof course you cannot do it withoutfollowing anyguide or when you are assembling forexample your computeryou decided to build your own computerso before you build your own computeryou follow what we call your user guideso this user guide now focuses more ongiving you instructionsso a user guide is a type of text no nota type of text an example of textthat gives youinstructions okaynext we have what we call your formalbusiness letter so another example oftext is your formal businessletter so when do we usually use aformal business letterokay we use it now to give informationabout somethingso for exampleyour bossor your superior now decided to provideinformation regardinguh no classes to be done during thesedaysso those are informative letters so itgives you now informationabout certain topics about or aboutcertain somethingscertain something certain topics orcertain topics now whereinityou use now a formal type of letterso when you talk about formal businessletter if you remember last week'sdiscussion okay if you've attended anyvirtual class last week we focus now onwhat we call your formal languageregister so when we talk about formallanguage register these are types ofletters or writings that follows what wecall structures andformatsokay so since it follows now certainstructures and format the content now ofyourletter usually is in a formal languageso announcementsthis is to announce that we will not behaving class on these daysthat's another form of formal businessletter so it focuses now in givinginformation about certaintopicsand last example of your text is yourpersonal letter a personal letter is atype of informal letter so unlike yourformal letterwherein it follows now what we call yourstructure your format or it uses nowwhat we call formal languages personalletters doesn'tuh do those kinds of thingsrather it is an example of what we callyour free writing so when you say freewriting you just simply write whateverinformation you want to convey toanother person without worrying nowthe without worrying whether you'refollowing the correct structure or thecorrect format so it talks aboutemotions it talks about the differentthings that you have done throughoutthat day that's why one example here isdescribing a holiday vacationso we write personal letters to thosepeople who arevery close to usor those people whoare uhpartspart or members of our familyor those people nowwho we consider them asuhpart uhuh as our closest friends or someonewho's very intimate to us like forexample if we have partners in lifethose are examples now ofuh intimate relationsrelationshipsbesides from your family members andclosest friends okayso next let's go now to the differenttypes of texts so as provided with theexamples a while ago we actually havespecific terms that we use toookay to identify these types of text andwe have now four types which are yourpersuasive instructive informative anddescriptiveso when we talk about persuasive textwhat is now persuasive so it is a typeof textthat really wants you to do somethingso it's a persuasion now type of textwhere it will encourage you to dosomethingand the example that we provided a whileago is your advertokay so it this is a type of text thathas persuasion that will encourage younow to do certain things or to do nowsomethingumabout what is beinguhplaced now in the text so for examplehere you have your sharpieas i mentioned a while ago we theyproduce now what we call adverts likethis one 11 11 christmas sales sinceit's sale the tendencies that will justyou know we'll think that since theprice is lower than before we will beencouraged tobuy okayanother example is here the presidentsnow of different countries if theyprovide now for example guidelinesand they're persuading you to followthese guidelinesso since we are under nowbutwe are now undera pandemicor we're having now this pandemicusually our leaders now provides us withwhat we call guidelines and theseguidelines now they persuade us now thatwe need to follow this guideline so thatto ensure to limit now the number ofcases increasing so that is an exampleof persuasive text for example theywrote there that you are not allowed togo to crowded places you are notsupposed the other they're going topersuade you tobe vaccinated so that itlimits now the transmission of the virusor it limits now the effects of thevirus in your body should you be ableshould the virus now attack your bodythose are kinds ofpersuasivetextsokayso persua persuasive text might use thefollowing repeated wordslike in your lasada or in your shoppie11 11 those are repeatedwords okay why do they use repeatedwords to emphasize nowyour advert or to emphasize yourpersuasionthey use capital letters they use boldletters for exampleso when they create announcements orguidelines they capitalize nowwhat needs to be done or they capitalizenow the important thingsthey useexclamation points to add now emotion tothetextand rhetoricalquestionsokay so rhetorical questions are usuallyused now when you are advertisingsomething and you really really wantthem to buy your product they use whatwe call rhetoricalquestionsnextwe have the second type which is yourinstructive textso when we talk about instructive textit is a written text to instruct someoneto do somethingor relating to procedures to be doneokay the word procedures there do takenotethe tone of words is commanding and mayuseformal and directwordsokay so when you go to the toilet whenit says they're ladies onlythat is an example of an instructivetext meaningthose whoconsider themselves as a lady or afemale are allowed to enter now thosecubicleokay another example that we have hereis when we're going to or when we areentering nowspecific places or specificestablishments before we enter you willsee there nowannouncements or instructionslike you need to make sure that you haveyour massno mass no entryno face shield no entryyou need to keep your distance there aremarkers now that you will see on thefloorthat will show you nowhow farshould you be standing from anotherpersonyou need to cover your mouth should youcough for example or suddenly sneezeensure that you are covering your mouthand at all timesthere are hand sanitizers availableshould youneed to use hand sanitizers so those areinstructive textokayso when you follow nowfor example certain procedures or youneed to followuh stepbystep processesbut it uses now formal and direct wordsthose are examples of yourinstructive textso how is it different now from yourinformative textso informative text is defined as thetext which contains factual informationand stepbystepprocedures okayso when we talk about informative textplease do not get confused with the wordstep by step procedure because we canalso use it in your instructive textwhere can we use now uh yourstepbystep procedure in an instructivetext when you go to the gym for exampleand your trainer asks you know to dothese kinds of routinesthose are instructive textswhen you research now for example how tocreatethis dish or how todo origami origami for example or how todo origami foldingsthose are instru instructive text theyprovide now direct words that you needto do or that that you need to useokay or that you need to follow now soas for you to be able to create theproduct that you arefollowing whereas when we talk aboutinformative textit needs to have what we call factualinformationokayfactualinformation meaning where do we usuallysee thisin your newspaperannouncement boardokay what are the stepbystepprocedures that they are saying therewhen they create now what we callannouncement boardor for example when your teacher nowannounced that heor she is giving youan activityokay she provided nowthe details of the activity and gave younow instructionson how to submit the activitythat is an example of your informativetextit is found under your announcement okayso when we see this now informativetexts are very formalthat's why your news is an example oryour news articles are examples of yourinformative text because it follows nowstructures and at the same time okay ituses formal languages it's veryinformative in its manner and whatevernow information is being or is whateverinformation you are askingit will provide now all the necessaryinformationso when you research now in googleokay informations about certain someoneor about a certain person whateverinformation you they will be providingin the textthose are informative informationsokayso that is your informativetext and lastly we have what we callyour descriptive texta descriptive text are very informalit just aims to describe now a certainpersoncertain thingsor certain events using what we calladjectives or adverbs to clearlyemphasize now the description process sofor example your teacher now showed youa squareso if she asks you now to describe thesquareautomatically some of you will say thesquare is color blankthe square has four sides four cornersand are all in right angles and have thecolor blank those are types of yourdescription a descriptive text so you'regiving now descriptions on certain itemsor certain thingsusing nowokayusing now your fivesenses so you visualize thingsor you appeal things now using thisdescriptive text you are actuallyappealing to your five senses so even ifthey cannot actually seethe uh the object since you provided nowa clear description of the item orthat's uh that person they will use nowtheir senses to imagine nowhow that object or how that person lookslike so that is your descriptive text sofor examplethis basic sentence it says here theleaf fell off the treeso your teacher or your instructor asksyou now to create a detailed sentenceusing now this certain are using thebasic topicso you might saythat the leaf that is color greenfell off the tree that is six feet orfell off a six feet threeso you added now adjectivesto provide the color of the leaf and theheight of the treeso those are descriptivetext okay his eyes were like the colorof the ocean on the clearest day so youcan say that his eyesthat are a no for example the word hisso you can write for example herealready the nameso blank's eyes are color bluethat are the same with the color of theocean on the clearest day during summerduring winterduringautumnokay so those are your detailedsentences it's just simply adding nowadjectives or additional informationcommunication aids and strategies using tools of technologyPresentation Media       It is a stand alone presentation that includes information, presented with slides, video or digital presentation and includes sound. Using Traditional Visual and Audio Media Overhead Transparencies  Transparencies are clear acetate pages displayed by an overhead projector during a speech. Flip Chart a large pad paper that rest on an easel allowing the speaker to record. White board/chalk board these materials can also help you achieve the same outcome. Document Camera is a projector device.Video showing a video clip can elicit an emotional response from the audience. Handouts are sheet of paper containing relevant information that some speakers use in conjunction with other presentation media. Sound recordings sounds, like visual images can stimulate mental images triggering the imagination and setting mood. Using Computer Technology Digital Slides  a presentation software commonly using PowerPoint. It allows computer users to display information in multimedia presentation. Real Time Web Access  use to demonstrate how to do something special on the web such as researching an ideas. Strategies Using Tools of Technology:Keep it simpleEmphasize your key ideasShow what you can't sayUse close up shots and other imagesKeep the number of images you present manageableCombine variety with coherenceUse large letteringPowerPoint Presentation Tips:Go for creativity create your own design, try different combination and let your creativity flow.Colors are nice  flat colors are beautiful and contrast is your friend.Use good fonts  Comic Sans and Georgia will do.Text is evil use the 102030 rule, too many text will catch the attention of the audience from you.Images say more than a thousand words make the images more powerful.Big is beautiful think big, think bold.Info graphics are amazing use simple info graphics.Get inspired remember your ultimate goal.Tips in using Presentation Media: Practice with your Media. Consider your room and audience.Speak to your audience not your media. Always Remember this: 10  20  30  10 Slides, 20 Minutes, 30 Font Size 1  6  6  1 Main Idea, 6 Bullets point, 6 Words per Bullet.7  7  7 Lines , 7 Words. 9Ps  Prior Proper Preparation Prevents Poor Performance of the Person Putting on the Presentation.      In this topic, I have learned about the different tools and different strategies are best to use to my presentation. In this topic we must first know the different types of Communication Strategies before we use the different tools and strategies. And this lesson is very important because it helps us to make our presentation is presentable and it can provokes the attention of the audience. And also using this different strategies, it enhances our self confidence in front of other people. WHAT IS A COMMUNICATION AID?A communication aid helps an individual to communicate more effectively with people around them.Communication aids are also referred to as AAC devices. AAC refers to Augmentative and Alternative Communication, which Communication Matters define as,… a huge range of techniques which support or replace spoken communication. These include gesture, signing, symbols, word boards, communication boards and books, as well as Voice Output Communication Aids (VOCAs).There are two main types of AAC system: Unaided Communication and Aided Communication.Unaided communication does not use additional equipment. People typically use body language, gesture, vocalisation or signing.Aided communication uses equipment – this can range from lowtech to hitech methods and often uses pictures and symbols instead of, or together with words. Alternative hardware options are available to provide access. A lowtech method of communication such as a simple, laminated communication book to carry around with a few pages of pictures or symbols is a communication aid. However, the term “device” only describes a more hitech solution. An electronic communication aid can be a dedicated device designed only to help the user communicate. Alternatively, the device could be a standard computer on which the user has installed specialist communication aid software. Note that touchscreen tablets such as iPads are increasingly being used to help people communicate.AAC equipment – both hardware and software – may also be referred to as “AAC systems”. Each has pros and cons and what is suitable for one person will not necessarily suit a different user. Lowtech solutions are not inferior to hitech solutions. What you choose will depend on personal preference, abilities and needs. The method of access, environmental factors and funding are also deciding factors. A specialist assessment through a speech and language therapist or communication aid centre will help to identify a person’s most appropriate AAC system or systems.The hardware and software are not the full picture, however. Training and ongoing support are vital factors in determining someone’s successful use of a communication aid.MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION  CHAPTER 5: COMMUNICATION AIDS AND STRATEGIES USING TOOLS OF TECHNOLOGY Objectives: At the end of the lesson, the students will be able to: a.) identify the different communication aids; b.) recognize the important use of different communication aids; d.) shoot a video showing the convenient effects of technology in                   communication WHAT IS COMMUNICATION AIDS If an individual’s speech is unclear or has no speech at all, then a computer can help him be understood.  A communication aid is anything that helps an individual communicate more effectively with those around him.  It is not essential for the user to be able to read text in order to use a communication aid. Many aids are symbols or picturebased and still provide full functionality in order to communicate with others.  The use of PC to support an individual’s need is likely to benefit him. But please be aware that getting the correct equipment with the correct software, mounted into correct place, controlled with a suitable method, and will be more than 40 percent of a solution. MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION   An electronic communication aid can be a device that has been purposely built for that job or a standard computer running specialist communication software with the added benefit of being a computer as well. CHOOSING THE CORRECT COMMUNICATION AID  Choosing a particular electronic facility will require careful assessment of the abilities and needs of the individual so that the best device can be chooses.  The majority of aids need to be programmed with suitable messages and a structure to suit the individual using the aids. EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES  Effective communications are vital to achieve the goals and objectives of the course or career whether trying to improve services at the building level, secure funding at the district level or shape policy at the national level. 1. IMBIBE LEADERSHIP ROLE IN COMMUNICATION  Knowing and reaching out to key audiences/stakeholders  Recognizing communications opportunities.  Developing and conveying key messages.  Providing useful, relevant information to group or individual.  Making use of resources provided by the school, district or division level.  Coordinating with colleagues within the school, district or division level.  Encouraging school psychologist to be active communicators. MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION   2. DETERMINE KEY MESSAGE AREAS  Developing clear, memorable messages are critical to effective communications. Determining what your most important messages are depending on the goal and the specific situation but there are a few global issues that are central to the profession today. The school or district may help develop and disseminate key messages on these global issues to a variety of stakeholder audiences and for use by school psychologists. These can include:  Prevention/Early Intervention (Prevention is Intervention)  Children’s Mental Healthy and SchoolBased Services.  ProblemSolving Model and RTI (Implication of approach/role of school psychologist). DEVELOPING YOUR MESSAGES For more knowledge about developing your messages please check the link provided: https://youtu.be/hcZ9DE5gsVk 1. IDENTIFY YOUR TARGET AUDIENCE.  Messages even on the same issue should be tailored as narrowly as possible to the specific audience because they have different concerns and perspective.  Administrators  Teachers/Other Educators  Allied professionals  Policymakers  Advocacy Groups MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION    Media  School Psychologists/Guidance Counselors CONSIDER YOUR AUDIENCE’S:  Level of knowledge/awareness  Primary concerns/expectations  Perspective  Possible barriers to understanding  Ability/likelihood to take action. 2. FOCUS ON YOUR OBJECTIVE:  Consider why the issue is important, to whom, and why at this time. What do you want to accomplish?  Raise awareness of your role/value to students/adults  Raise awareness of a specific issue.  Increase your involvement/effectiveness on an issue  Build support for specific policy/resource needs.  Encourage parents/teachers/students to act 3. BE RELEVANT. THIS IS HOW TO BE RELEVANT  Relate the issue to a school, district or division context.  People focus on issues they are concerned about. MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION    Articulate impact on students/school  Include some supporting points about what parents/teachers/students can do.  Provide your contact information 4. BE CLEAR AND CONCISE. TO DO THIS:  Pick your main point.  State it at the outset.  Back it up with 23 facts or data points.  Provide specific suggestions.  Provide personal examples.  Use audience appropriate language.  Avoid acronyms/technical language.  Use active tense.  Use bullets to the extent possible.  Ask a colleague to review.  Proof your work (or ask someone else to)! 4. THE THINGS TO KEEP IN MIND. HERE THEY ARE  Most people will only remember 2 or 3 points in any communications.  Be brief.  Think about the perspective of your audience.  You know the way more than your audiences need to hear/read.  Incorporate language relevant to others. MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION  Think catch. 5. BE CONSITENT TO THE POINTS YOU MAKE  Emphasize the importance of prevention and early intervention.  Identify the link between the issue/topic and learning and behavior.  Reiterate the effective interventions and proper supports improve children’s outcomes.  Describe, at least briefly, the school psychologist’s role in addressing the issue.  Encourage people to seek additional information from your/their local school psychologist. Effective communication is critical to the successful implementation of change initiatives. Clear communication about the change is essential; messages should be easy to read, userfriendly, informative and relevant to the audience. KEY THINGS TO CONSIDER WHEN COMMUNICATION CHANGE  Consistent, timely, honest, accurate communication.  Explain the vision, plans, anticipated benefits and progress of the change initiative.  Capture and address questions and issues (promptly!)  Aim to maximize participation in the change process by involving employees.  Constantly reinforce common themes and messages.  Encourage discussion and dialogue about change.  Adapt communications strategies as needed in order to address and resolve unforeseen issues. MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION   Adapt the communication to the audience.  Ensure the communication is effective. KEY THINGS TO CONSIDER WHEN CREATING A COMMUNICATION PLAN FOR CHANGE INITIATIVE  What do you need to communicate?  With whom do you need to communicate?  How will you generate awareness of the proposed change?  How will you educate and engage people?  What do you want to accomplish with the change and how can you use communications to assist with this? UNDERSTANDING YOUR AUDIENCE  Who are they?  What do they know/understand already?  What drives/motivates them?  What question/concerns might they have?  What tools/channels will you use to communicate?  Who is the primary contact for employee questions/concerns?  MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION  LEADERS FOR CHANGE  The person leading the change has a critical role to play; they should:  Provide a clear vision and explanation and vision for the change –the rationale, possible impacts and expected benefits.  Send consistent and supportive messages  Model the behaviors expected of others  Provide regular updates during consultation and implementation stages  Be open to feedback and suggestions, consider comments/suggestions and respond.  Consider what communication will work best for delivery of the message: facetoface, email, etc. COMMUNICATION TOOLS  Nick Roland (2017) emphasized that with the proliferation of digital technology in the late 20th century and early 21st century, communication has never been more personal and powerful. MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION  1. PHONES  Before landlines are used as the primary communication tool of the people.  Cell phones were thought of as luxury.  Now, wireless phones are dominant form of communication in many countries including the Philippines.  Text messaging is rampant.  The advent of the smartphone has enabled mobile phones to have PC functionality to send large pictures and video files. 2. Email  In 1945, Massachusetts Institute of Technology researchers and staff first used email.  Email is a function of the Internet, and users can access it from myriad of devices including cell phones.  3. SOCIAL NETWORKS  Twitter is a form of mass communication, as messages get spread to may recipients.  Twitter is a social medium, with that it enables instant interaction among users who can communicate directly and “retweet” other Twitterer messages. MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION  Page 10   Facebook is social media platform similar to it predecessor MySpace.  Facebook has numerous functions and benefits and allows users to communicate on a oneonone basis or to large groups. 4. INSTANT MESSAGING ANS SKYPE  Instant messaging saw its peak early in the 21st century before the rise of the more interactive social media platforms.  THE USE OF TOOLS OF TECHNOLOGY IN COMMUNICATION  Using technology in communication has become a necessity, it’s now part of our lives.  People communicate through emails, faxes, mobile phones, texting services, video conferences, video chat rooms and other social media channels.  As time goes on, more emerging technologies will change the way we communicate and it will be up to us to embrace them or not. THE IMPACT OF TECHNOLOGY IN COMMUNICATION TO A BUSINESS  Today, every business uses technology in its own way to reach the media and targeted consumers.  Businesses have embraced technology by easing communication within companies and among investors and suppliers. MODULE PURPOSIVE COMMUNICATION  Page 11  FEW USES OF TECHNOLOGY IN COMMUNICATION TO A BUSINESS  EASY PRODUCT LAUNCH  PRODUCT OR SERVICE SURVEYS  SOCIAL INTERACTIONS WITH CONSUMERS  VIDEO CONFERENCING  USE OF DIGITAL NETWORKS THE IMPACT OF TECHNOLOGY IN COMMUNICATION TO INDIVIDUALS  Technology has changed the way we interact and communicate with others.  With the increased use of socialbased networks, people can create new relationships and discover old friends.  With technology, parents can communicate and keep track of their children. FEW USES OF TECHNOLOGY TOWARDS INDIVIDUAL  TEXT MESSAGING SERVICES  SOCIAL NETWORKING PLATFORMS  PARENTAL SECURITY APPS  COMMUNICATION AIDS ANDSTRATEGIESUSING TOOLS OF TECHNOLOGYPREPARING MULTIMEDIA PRESENTATIONIn today’s society communication is mediated using technology. Forcommunication to be more effective. It is imperative to know howtechnology works. When purpose it can serve and how it can be usedefficiently and effectively used to achieve specific goals in thecommunication process.A. Characteristics of Multimedia Presentation1. Multimedia Presentation are visually oriented (displayed on a monitoror project onto a screen.2.They allow users to use different modalities such as.Text, Graphics, Photographs, Audio, Animation, and Video.Special features of computer – based presentations1. Custom navigation (Linking) between slides, to others media and to the internet2. Can be made into hard copy printouts or transparencies3. Can be uploaded to the webB. Steps in making effective Multimedia Presentation1. Know the purpose2. Know the audience3. Gather information4. Use a variety of resources such us.a. TextbooksB. digital resources1. photographs2. Scanned images, student workC. Internet5. Do not forget to cite sources.a.Write the author’s name, title of the work and date of publication.B.Include the website or Web page address of the source.C.In general, nonprofit educational use of online materials tor a lccurequanes a5 tair use but it is better to ask the author s permission to use suchmaterials.D. Always have full bibliographic references for all citations.6. Organize the Informationa. List the main points.B. Have only one main idea per slide.C. Present ideas in a logical order.D. Place important information near the top.7. Check technical issuesa. ContrastDark text on light backgroundWhite text on dark backgroundb. Use only one design and color scheme throughout the slidepresentationC. Avoid clutterd. Avoid patterned or textured backgrounds.E. Use large font size (minimum 18 pts)f. Use fonts that are easy to read. Don’1 use fancy fontsg. Don’t use more than two types of fonts.H. Avoid too much text. Don t use the presentation as your notesi. Use no more than 5 or 4 bullets per slide.8.Be Creativea. Use transition and animation to add interes.b. But don’t overdo it!PREPARING PECHA KUCHA PRESENTATIONSPecha kucha is a 20slide power point presentation which moves automaticallyto each succeeding slide every after 20 seconds. This presentation is very helpfulto keep track of the time.Remember:1. Open the power point. Select blank layout or simply press CTRL N or Command N.2. Duplicate the blank slides. Make sure that you have 20 blank slides.3. Select all the slides(you can use CTRL A). Make sure to remove the check mark onthe “on mouse click” then modify the transition speed to 20 seconds.4. Insert and resize images.5. After saving the Pecha Kucha presentation, check the speed of transition. Make surethat the saved speed for all slides is 20 seconds.6. Practice your narration with the Pecha Kucha presentation. You can record yournarration in the power point presentation.BLOGGINGAccording to Richardson (2006),the use of blogs has been an engaging and effective wayto promote writing skills of primary students,particularly when student peers providefeedback to the blog.In other words,blogging has become an indispensable medium ofcommunication,academic purposes, etc.Blog is a shortened form of weblog,blogs are personal journal websites on which a usercan type an entry and add images, videos and links to other websites.Usually,readers ofa blog can post comments.The following are guides to remember when writing an effective blog:1.Be short and direct.2.Ask a thoughtprovoking question.3.Ask a multiplechoice question.4.Share a shoking fact or statistic.5.Share something personal.6.Withhold a compelling piece of information.7.Refute conventional wisdom.8.Lead with a success story.9.Start with a reader’s question.10.Share a quote.WHAT IS COMMUNICATION STRATEGY? it is the blueprint or plan it maps the howsto conveying a messageit is designed to help people to communicate effectively andaccomplish individual or organizational objectives it is also defined as the choice of the most useful objectives ofcommunication, and recognition of a particular brand and itsstrategies in terms of attitudeKINDS OF COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES1. Verbal communication strategy can either be written and ora/commuicationa) Written communication—comprises e—mails, chat, fax messages, and text messagesb) Oral communication may involve phone calls, video chats, aside from facetofacecovnersationNonverbal communication strategy2. is more on visual cues such as facial reactions, body language,voice tone, and the physical distance between communicatorsExamples:Shaking handsPatting the backEye contact3.Visual communication strategy provides documentation in school and in workplaces.Examples:SignagesMemorandaIllustrationsWebpagesGraphic designsB.FACTORS TO CONSIDER INDEVELOPING ACOMMUNICATIONSTRATEGY1. Objectives— communication strategy should be aligned closely to yourindividual or organizational plan. if presenting on your own, you should clarify your personalobjectives; if speaking for and in behalf of an organization, you shouldlook at your organization's vision, mission, and goals.Classification of objectives or goals:General— general purpose is a broad indication of what you are tryingto acconplishSpecific— specific objectives describe the outcome you are seekingAudiencesidentify your target audience whom you need tocommunicate with to achieve your personal or organizational goal orobjectives.Questions to ask:Who are the key audience members?How much do they know?What do they want to know?What are their personal preferences?Which demographic characteristics are significant?What size is the group?What are the audiences' attitude?3.Messages— communication is all about storytelling; thus; thus, always usean interesting narrative, human interest stories, and imageryAdler, et al. (2012) suggest that you develop the thesis statement. Athesis statement is the central or key idea; it is a single sentence thatsummarizes your message.Examples:Investing now in a newsystem willsave us moneyin the/ong run.Advertising on our website will boost our sales You don' t have to accept sexwual harassment.4.Context— influences what you say or how you say it.Example:X If others are speaking as part of your program, you need to take them intoaccount"/ had originally planned to discuss the technical aspects of If you're presenting a new budget proposal just after a company hassuffered a major financial loss, you should be prepared to show how yourbudget will cut costs (Adler, et al. 2012).5.Tools and Activities identify the most appropriate tools and activities to be usedin communicating the messages to the audience.Example:a) Tablesb) Diagramsc) Graphsd) Visual aids (objects and models, photographs, charts, pictograms, videos,posters, handouts)PITFALLS OF COMPUTERIZED DESIGN PROGRAMSa) Poorly conceived messages,b) Design over content, andc) Overly complex presentationsGUIDELINES IN PRESENTATION SOFTWARE (ADLER, ET AL, 2012)Be sure you have a reason for using a visual aid.Keep your slide shows brief.Match the sophistication of your visuals to your audience.Make sure the visual is large enough to see.Keep the design of your visuals simple.Use only a few words (in each slide).Use only horizontal printing.Label all items for clear identification.Display a visual only while you are discussing it.Practice using your visuals.6.Resources and Time ensure the availability of the resources and set an expectedtimescale for your communication strategy. remember to check if the equipment that you will use are ready andworking. be mindful of the time alloted for you.EvaluationSelfassessment questions (Adler, et al., 2012)a) Was each point or claim that I made supported by at least one piece ofverbal and/or visual support?b) Did each piece of supporting material make my claims more clear,interesting, and persuasive?c) Did I use a variety of verbal support (definitions, examples, stories,statistics, and comparisons) to add impact to my presentation?d) Did my visuals (charts, graphs, photos, videos, etc) make my points moreclear, interesting, and persuasive>Did I present visuals in a way that contributed to my effectiveness?Did I look at my audience, not at the visuals, while speaking?Did I display visuals only when discussing them?Evaluatione) Did I practice using all technology (eg.,computers, projectors) tomake sure it operated smoothly in the venue where I spoke?f) Did I present information honestly and accurately to support my claims?9) Were the complexity and sophistication of materials I cited appropriate formy audience and topic?h) Did I cite the sources of my supporting material when appropriate?Communication forVarious PurposesLearning Outcomes to adopt awareness of audience and context in presentingideasto obtain, provide, and disseminate information usingmultimodal textsWatch and Analyzenumerous purposes. The waymessages are crafted dependshighly on the intention of thesender. Supermarket – sales agent – product is promoted getsconsumers buying. News anchor – delivers information in such a way thatall the facts are clearly stated doing away with words that may causeconfusion Criminal lawyer – design his arguments supported byfacts to convince the judge and the juryInformativeCommunication It involves giving than asking. As an informative communicator, you want yourreceivers to pay attention and understand, but not to change theirbehavior. By sharing information, ignorance is reduced, or betteryet, eliminated. The informative value of a message is measured byhow novel and relevant the information is or the kind of understanding itprovides the receivers.Osborn (2009)purports thatinformativecommunication arisesout of three deepimpulses: We seek to expand our awareness of the world aroundus. We seek to become more competent. We have an abiding curiosity about how things workand how they are made.When preparing for aninformative exchange,ask yourself thefollowing questions: Is my topic noteworthy to be considered informative? What do my recipients already know about my topic? What more do they have to know? Am I knowledgeable enough of my topic to help myreceivers understand it?PersuasiveCommunication It is an art of gaining fair and favorable considerationsfor our point of view. It Provides a choice among options. Advocates something through a speaker. Uses supporting material to justify advice. Turns the audience into agents of change. Asks for strong audience commitment. Gives importance to the speaker’s credibility. Appeals to feelings. Has higher ethical obligation.ArgumentativeCommunication It relies heavily on sound proof and reasoning. The nature of proof has been studied since the GoldenAge of Greece and has been improved through time. According to Aristotle, logos, ethos and pathos are thethree primary forms of proof. In our time, whoever, many scholars have confirmedthe presence of a fourth dimension of proof, mythos, which suggeststhat we respond to appeal to the traditions and values of our cultureand to the legends and folktales that embody them.Lucas (2007) claims that toavoid defective argumentation,the following must be avoided: Defective evidence Misuse of facts, statistical fallacies, defective testimony,inappropriate evidence Defective patterns of reasoning Evidential fallacies Slippery slope, confusing facts with opinion, red herring, myth of themean Flawed proofs Defective argumentsBest practices inCommunication forVarious Purposes1. Develop your listening skills.2. Pay attention to nonverbal messages.3. Use positive language.4. Think before you speak.5. Ask your teachers, deans, or school officials, including yourclassmates what your strongest or weakest communication skills are.(1) Communicate to Obtain InformationObtaining, evaluating, and communicating scientificinformation develop scientifically literate citizens.Students should be able to interpret scientific discourse, texts, tables,diagrams, graphs, and mathematical expressions.Students should be able to recognize and read different types ofscientific communications, including scientific literature and mediareports of science.Students should be able to interpret and critique thesecommunications.(2) Communication to Provide andDisseminate InformationThis is a channel of sending the information to thereceiving end – a relationship between a senderand receiver of information.Dissemination is the release of date or information froma sender to a user through various media outlet.(3) Communication to PersuadePersuasion is an umbrella term of influence. It can attempt toinfluence a person’s beliefs, attitudes, intentions, motivations,or behaviors. Systematic persuasion – is the process through whichattitudes or beliefs are leveraged by appeals to logic and reason. Heuristic persuasion – is the process through whichattitudes or beliefs are leveraged by appeals to habit or emotion.(3) Communication to PersuadePersuasion is an umbrella term of influence. It can attempt toinfluence a person’s beliefs, attitudes, intentions, motivations,or behaviors. Systematic persuasion – is the process through whichattitudes or beliefs are leveraged by appeals to logic and reason. Heuristic persuasion – is the process through whichattitudes or beliefs are leveraged by appeals to habit or emotion.Communication to Persuade Heuristic persuasion – is the process throughwhich attitudes or beliefs are leveraged by appeals to habit oremotion. consensus heuristic expert heuristic length of the messageTypes of SpeechesInformative SpeechThis aims to inform by giving instructions, explanations, ordemonstrations. A good informative speech is one thatreally shares or imparts new knowledge to the audience.Examples of informative speech:1. Reports.2. Instructions.Inspirational speechThis attempts mainly to inspire the listeners and makethem more motivated and enthusiastic about life.1. Eulogy2. Commemorative speechesa. Opening remarksb. Introduction of guest speakerc. Keynote addressSpeech to entertainThis is usually delivered to amuse listeners anddivert their attention from the usual dailystress or problems they face. This is done bytelling lighthearted, funny stories.Persuasive SpeechThis is used by the speaker to influence the thinking, beliefs, oractions of the audience. The speaker can do this by appealingto logic and appealing to pity.1. Debates2. Political campaign talks3. Appeals for donations4. Making critical comments/speeches in ralliesConducting InterviewsBefore the interview Who and what. Decide on your subject matter then findout who might know about this subject. Background research. You should have some basicknowledge about the subject. When and where. You need to make an appointmentwith the interviewee. Supplies. Tape recorder or video camera, journal foryour notes, pen or pencil, and the list of questions.During the interview Arrival and set up. Look nice and think about being your“most polite” self. Ask politely to set up your recorder. Conduct the interview. Begin asking questions you haveprepared. Ask openended questions. Take notes.After the interview Write followup notes in journal. Label your tapes or disks. Transcribe Analyze your findings. Write a thankyou noteA.PURPOSES OFCOMMUNICATION1. Informativethe main purpose of informative or expositorycommunication or writing is to simply convey information factually. its goal is to input new learning, enhance prior knowledge,confirm a concept, alleviate comprehension of an idea, or explain aprocess or procedure.TIPS IN DOING AN INFORMATIVE PRESENTATIONa) Stick to the facts.b) Avoid repetition.c) Make it clear.2.Persuasive in writing, it is pushing across an idea and convincing peopleor readers to support the idea you want to conveyExamples: TV commercials Periodical advertisements billboardsTIPS IN DOING A PERSUASIVE PRESENTATIONa) Be objective, but subjective.b) Use your brain, not your heart.c) Cite, cite, cite.B.PUBLIC SPEAKINGWHAT IS PUBLIC SPEAKING?— Public speaking is a way of making your ideasof sharing them with other people and ofpublicinfluencing other people.THREE MAJOR DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CONVERSATIONAND PUBLIC SPEAKING (LUCAS, 2015):Public speaking is more highly structured.Public speaking requires more formal language.Public speaking requires a different method of delivery.SEVERAL WAYS OF DELIVERING A SPEECH1. A read speech or reading from a manuscript is thewordforword iteration of a written message.2.The memorized speech is the recitation of a writtenmessage that the speaker has memorized.3.An impromptu speech is not rehearsed This type ofspeaking is a presentation ofa short message without priorpreparation4.An extemporaneous speech is the presentation of a plannedand rehearsed speech using minimal notes.GUIDELINES ON WRITING A SPEECH (LUCAS, 2015)Focus on your topic.Develop your topic.Organize your speech.IntroductionBodyConclusionELEMENTS FOR A GOOD DELIVERYVolumePitchRatePausesVocal varietyPronunciationArticulationMovementGesturesEye contact6 WAYS TO TURN NERVOUSNESS FROM A NEGATIVE FORCEINTO A POSITIVE FORCE (LUCAS, 2015)Acquire speaking experiencePrepare, prepare, prepare.Think positively.Use the power of visualization.Know that most nervousness is not visible.Do not expect perfection.C. InterviewWHAT IS AN INTERVIEW?An interview is a twoparty interaction in which atleast one party has a specific, serious purpose and thatusually involves the asking and answering questions.CHARACTERISTICS OF AN INTERVIEW:A. Interviews always involve two parties.B. Interviewing is always purposeful.C. There is focus on asking and asnwering questions.PLANNING AN INTERVIEW (ADLER, 2012)Define the goal.Identify and analyze the other party/respondent.Prepare a list of topics.Choose the best interview structure.Consider possible questions.Arrange the setting.CONDUCTING AN INTERVIEW (ADLER, ET AL.. 2012)Open with a greeting and an orientation.Perform several tasks during the questionandanswer phase ofthe discussion.Close with a satisfactory conclusion.GUIDELINES FOR BOTH THE INTERVIEWER ANDINTERVIEWEE IN THE CONDUCT OF AN INTERVIEW:Formally inform that you will be conducting or attending aninterview.Being punctual is key in making a good impression.Dress to impress.Always start with a strong handshake.Color your words with kindness.Avoid unnecessary stories.Do not lose eye contact during the interview.The magic word is thank you.Communication is designed to serve three basic functions: a) to provide information, b)to  persuade  or  argue,  and  c)  to  entertain,  honor  or  praise  (Lull  &  Coopman,  2012).  Incommunicating, we always have a definite purpose, which is usually intentional, perceptive orrecognizable, and functional (or designed to achieve something positive.) However, there aresome instances that  we  encounter unintentional, dysfunctional  result. To avoid having  thoseunintended negative effects, a clear, correct language and being sensitive to cultural differencesis a must.The first function  of  communication  is  to  provide  information, it  is  undeniably  thecommon and most important form of communication. It is done to give instructions, providefacts or clarify ideas. Giving someone instructions on how to study hard for an examination, explaining tosomeone how to do something, giving simple directions, to explain complicated process (such asphotosynthesis) or as complex as giving an oral report based on research (causes of the war inMarawi City) are examples of providing information.There  are  four  nature  of  informative  communication.  Lucas  (2012),  "Providinginformation  usually  deals  with  objects,  processes,  events,  and  concepts.  The  first  nature  ofinformative communication is object. Objects may include anything that is visible, tangible, andstable in form. They may be non living or living, such as places, structures, animals and evenpeople, for example, Rodrigo R. Duterte, Electronic gadgets, Dinosaurs ruling the world, A tripto Boracay.The second nature of informative communication refers to processes. Processes may compriseany systematic series of actions that lead to a specific result or product. Communication aboutprocesses explains how something is made, how something is done, or how something works. Itis  usually  the  "how."  How  flashflood  develop,  Writing  an  effective  resume,  Flow  ofcommunication in business are examples of processes.The third nature refers to events. This can be anything that happens or is regarded ashappening. For example, Fight against drugs, Sleep deprivation and Festival of the Gun.The  last  nature  of  informative  communication  is  concept.  Concepts  may consists  ofbeliefs, theories, ideas, principles, and the like. They are more abstract than objects, processes, orevents. Philosophy of Education, Confucianism, Terrorism are its example.To sum up, the main function of communication is to provide information and providinginformation is significant in many aspects because you have to provide facts and emphasizestatements clearly and the goal is to make your listeners understand every deatils you say as aspeaker.NATURE OF INFORMATIVE COMMUNICATION        (Lucas, 2012) concludes that informative speaking usually centers on  talking aboutobjects, processes, events, and concepts.       Objects are the things that are visible, tangible, and stable in form which can be living ornonliving such as places, structures, animals and even people. (e.g. Rodrigo Duterte as President,Dinosaurs ruling the world, A trip to Boracay). Processes involve systematic series of actions thatlead to a specific result or product which explains how something is done, how something ismade, or how  something works. (e.g. How flashfloods develop, Flow of Communication inbusiness).  Events  can  be  anything  that  happens  or  is  regarded  as  happening.  (e.g.  Sleepdeprivation, Festival of the Gun) while concepts consist of beliefs, theories, ideas, principles, andthe like. (e.g. Confucianism, Philosophy of Education) FORMAL SITUATIONS REQUIRING INFORMATIVE COMMUNICATION      Speakers find several opportunities to deliver the following kinds of informative talks ina specific situation outside the school grounds; the public lecture, the status report, the briefing,the fireside chats, and the chalk talk.       Have you ever encounter a person who is always invited to have a talk in some of thespecial events because of his/her expertise? If yes, you already have an idea on what is publiclecture. Public lecture is delivering a speech to a community, group, or club of a person who hadan extensive knowledge on something.          While status report refers to updating the group of people regarding the condition ofvarious projects. This is usually done in a business or social group. For example, you are thecommittee chair of a volunteer organization that works with senior citizens in your community,and your community is planning a formal dance for the seniors, you may be asked to give thecommittee a status report in the possible venues of the event.      Briefing is the most common informative speech since it will just inform a group aboutthe changes in policy or procedure. On the other hand, the fireside chats features a group leaderaddressing the concerns, worries, and issues at the moment.      Lastly, the chalk talk which is usually observed in a basketball game wherein the coach isusing a chalkboard to show the team how to execute the moves for their defense and win. ORGANIZATIONAL PATTERNS FOR INFORMATIVE SPEECHES1. The Chronological  Pattern explains how  someone or  something  has  developed  over aperiod of time. The importance of each step is highlighted in this pattern. For example,stages in the life cycle of a living creature. 2. The Spatial Pattern allows you to describe the physical or directional relationship between objects or places. It highlights certain locations, areas, or spaces in a particular place. The chart below is one of the best example.Topic: The Life Cycle of JellyfishGeneral Purpose:To informSpecific Purpose:To help the audience understand the lifecycle of jellyfish.Jellyfish go through four main stages in their life cycle, larva, polyp, strobili, medua. Thesis:I. The first stage in the life cycle is the jellyfish larvae.II. The second stage is the polyp that attaches itself to the sea floor.III. The third stage is the strobili, a cluster of tiny jellyfish that emerges from the polyp IV. In the last stage, the organism separates from the cluster and swims away to eventually become a mobile adult jellyfish.Main Points:Zuni Indian ReservationTopic:General Purpose: To informTo inform the audience where Zuni Indians liveSpecific Purpose:The Zuni Indians live on the Zuni Indian Reservation in Western New Mexico and on surrounding lands in New Mexico and Arizona.Thesis:3. The Topical Pattern allows you to divide your topic into subtopics that address the components, elements, and/or aspects of the topic just like the example below.Main Points: I. The tribal government is based on the Zuni reservation in McKinley country and Cibola Country,New Mexico.II. Some members of the Zuni tribe also live in Catron Country, New Mexico, South of the main reservation in the western part of the state.III. The Zuni tribe has land holding and residence in Apache Country, Arizona, in the eastern part of the state, where it shares territory with Nabajo tribes.Topic: A Dog ShowGeneral Purpose:To informSpecific Purpose: To make audience aware of how a professional dog show is runThesis:The best dog in a professional dog show is judged after a series ofcompetitions.Main Points:I. On professional dog show, dogs are divided into breeds, and breeds are classified into groups, such as sporting or working dogsII. Dogs are judged according to conformity, with the breed standard, as well as personality, age, sex within breeds.III. The winner of each breed then competes within the appropriate group.IV. The winners of the groups then compete for best in show.4. The Narrative Pattern used to retell a story or a series of short stories. It is quite similar to the chronological pattern but it provides a stronger emphasis on the dramatic unfolding of event which is shown in the chart below.GUIDELINES FOR INFORMATIVE SPEAKINGMost people found informative speaking boring. Now, to keep the audience attention, youmust consider the following guidelines to produce a comprehensible, effective messages (Jaffe, 2010).1. Do an obstacle analysis of the audience.Plato, a Dwarf PlanetTopic:To informGeneral Purpose:Specific Purpose:To help the audience understand why Plato is considered a dwarf planetThesis:The story of Plato began with the discovery of Neptune, reached its peak with Plato’s naming as a planet in the early 1900’s and ended recently with Plato’s demotion to dwarf planet.Main Points:I. The story of Plato began with the discovery of Neptune in the 1840’s. II. In the early 20th century, the planet Plato was discovered and named.III. Beginning in the 2006, scientists began to doubt that Plato should have the same status as the other celestial bodies circling the sun.IV. In 2006, the International Astronomical Union reduced Plato to a secondary status, dwarf planet.2. Organize the material carefully.3. Personalize your material to your audience.Overall,  if  you  are  speaking  to  inform  you  should  consider  your  audience,  your  topic,sufficient and accurate information, visual aid usage, and physical presentation of information.You  will  be  also  an  effective  informative  speaker  if  you  can  add  humor  to  your  speechpresentation but make sure that you still rely on facts.Second Function: To PersuadePersuasion is the process of creating, reinforcing, or changing people’s beliefs oractions. The ability to speak and write persuasively will benefit you in every part of yourlife from personal relationships to community activities to career opportunities.According to Lucas (2012), that it is also vital to your being an informed citizenor consumer. He continues, everybody is exposed to at least 150 TV commercials.Politicians and  advertising sales people and  interest  groups, fund  raisers,  andcommunity activities, all vie for your attention, vote, money, time and support. The moreyou know of persuasion the more effective you become in using your power of criticalthinking to assess the barrage of persuasive messages you are exposed to everyday. When you speak to persuade, you act as an advocate. Your job is to get listeners toagree with you and perhaps to act on that belief. Your goal may perhaps be to defend anidea, to refute an opponent, to sell a program, or to inspire people to action.Difference between Informative and Persuasive SpeechesInformative speakers fulfill the role of an expert on a topic and seek to facilitateaudience  understanding  about  it.  In  contrast,  persuasive  speakers  take  the  role  ofpromoter or proponent, advocating a particular view on a topic they want the audience toadopt. A persuasive speaker not only becomes an expert of the topic; he also goes beyondarguing for a specific viewpoint he wants the audience to accept. It voices a clear positionon a topic, where as an informative speaker, he remains neutral. Persuasive speech is given for the purpose of persuading the audience to feel acertain  way,  to  take  a  certain  action,  or  to  support  a  specific  view  or  cause.  Aninformative  speech  involves  a  knowledgeable  speaker  transferring  some  of  theirknowledge to the audience.An informative speech aims to inform the audience about a specific or certaintopic while persuasive speech aims to perform a certain action or convince the audienceto adopt the belief or opinion of the speaker.Elements of PersuasionPersuasive speeches are intended to influence others. Because of this, they requiremore advanced building blocks to achieve that purpose. Lucas (2012) States that, Aristotle, one of the first people to theorize about persuasion,believes that persuasive messages rest on three elements or what he calls proofs, namely, ethos,pathos, and logic.1. ETHOS – Why should anyone listen to you?Ethos  is  about  your  credibility  and  integrity  as  a  speaker. What  experience  andknowledge do you have of the subject? What is your motive for bringing it to ourattention? While credibility may be established through an impressive speaker’s bio,it can quickly be ruined by a lame presence. A confident body language, enthusiasmand  passion,  and  a  well–modulated  voice  are  crucial  components  in  convincingothers. This is the Greek word for character. Here, the speaker attempts to persuade othersby using authoritative and trustworthy course or support of message.It also means, guiding beliefs of a person, group, or organization. Ethos refers to yourcharacter, ethics, and your believability when you speak. Increasing your credibilitywith  your  audience  before  and  during  your  speech  increases  the  likelihood  thatlisteners will accept your arguments and take action on your recommendations.Example:“As a teacher with thousands professionals gone under me, I can assure you thatteaching is an heroic profession.”2. PATHOS – How will you engage your audience emotionally?Pathos relates to the emotional effect on the audience – of your topic and of you as aspeaker. How would you like people to feel as a result of your presentation? Excited,worried,  provoked,  encouraged…?   Think  about  how  you  can  best  embody  andexpress that emotion yourself. Try to understand the perspective and concerns of theaudience and address those through stories and anecdotes. Most importantly, connectphysically with your audience through eye contact, an energized voice, and movingtowards them.This refers to the speaker’s appeal to emotions. A speaker might use pathos to arousethe audience’s feelings, such as by displaying photos to convince them to contributeto charitable organizations. Pathos is the emotional content of your presentation and islikely the most important. It is only when you move people at an emotional level thatyou can motivate them to change their thinking and take a particular action.Example:“imagine your children facing a future without you, then, take the opportunityTODAY to give up drugs and create a healthier YOU.”3. LOGOS – How strong and relevant is your content?Of course, if your message lacks substance, why communicate it? However, whatis  relevant and crystalclear to you may seem pure nonsense to others. Make surethat your content is adapted to the context and the level of familiarity of youraudience. Check that it’s structured in a logical way and that your arguments arecohesive. Wherever possible, simplify to make the message clear and memorable. Logos refers to logic, the words, and the reasons in the argument. This involvesusing  logic  to  support  a  speaker’s  statements  and,  thereby,  persuading  hisaudience. One way of doing this is by developing a coherent space that moveslogically through his argument, emphasizing reasoning (including statistics andappropriate data), them moving in of a powerful conclusion.Example:“It is important that everything that you say fits together like links in a chain or piecesof a jigsaw puzzle to form a coherent statement or argument. When you think throughand plan your talk, you organize your various points in a sequence from the general tothe particular, from the start to the  conclusion, with each point building on eachprevious point to form a persuasive argument.”Tracy  writes  in  his  book,  “All  three  elements—logos,  ethos,  and  pathos—must  be  woventogether if you want to move people and persuade them to your viewpoint.”TYPES OF PERSUASIVE SPEECHES  Persuasive speech is a specific type of speech that is delivered with a purpose. The speakercommunicates with an audience to accomplish specific goals, to ensure the audience accepts hisor her point of view. There are 3 types of Persuasive Speeches:  1. Speeches of Question of Fact.  This kind of persuasive speech requires the speaker to ask whether something is true or false.The speaker tries to persuade the audience that something did or did not occur, or that event did,in fact, cause another. Here, the speaker should present sound, credible evidence. He does notonly use facts and statistics  but  also uses  examples,  testimony,  definitions, or narratives  assupporting  evidences.  It  is  his  goal  to  make  the  audience  believe  or  agree  with  him  thatsomething is true or false—focusing mainly on reinforcing or changing how people think, not onhow they behave.  Organizational patterns for speeches or questions of facts are chronological, spatial, topical, andcauseandeffect. 2. Speeches on Question of Value.  This kind of persuasive speech requires the speaker to asksfor a subjective evaluation of something’s worth, significance, quality, or condition. Here, thespeaker argues that something is  good  or  bad,  right or wrong, beautiful  or ugly,  boring orengaging,  funny  or  seriousall  qualitative  judgements  about  something’s  significance.  Itaddresses individual opinion and cultural beliefs rather than proving something to be objectivelytrue or false. It may include a call for action, but it does not ask for explicit changes in political or organizational policy. Questions of value can address timeless issues or more contemporary concerns. 3.  Question of policy requires the speaker to asks what specific course of action should be taker orhow a problem should be solved. Question of policy may reflect current controversies, such asU.S. immigration policies or less contentious topics, like getting more exercise. These questionsalso range from the general, such as promoting democracy around the world, to the specific, suchas academic integrity policies on campus.  Speeches on question of policy ask the audience to personally take (or not take) a particularaction  or  support  (or  not  support)  a  particular  position.  Speakers  might  request  immediateinvolvement, general support for a social or political movement of some kind, disapproval of anidea, or a change in behavior. For example, a speaker might purpose any of the following: 1. College students should circulate a petition to ban junk foods on campuses. 2. People shouldsupport the animal rights movements. 3. Local residents should not approve of changes in thezoning law. 4. Everyone should exercise more. Organizational patterns for speeches on question of policy are problemsolution pattern and theproblemcauseproblem pattern. ETHICAL PRINCIPLES FOR PERSUASIVE SPEAKING The following principles should be followed by persuasive speakers. (Parsh, 2014). 1. Be careful about whom you trust.  Listeners like you need to watch whom you trust, and speakers need to provide credentials toshow they are trustworthy.   2. Analyze and evaluate messages for reasonableness, truth, andbenefit to you and the community.  As a critical thinker you will want messages to meet standards of reasonableness.   3. You andyour messages are persuasive if you have a long positive history.  Try to establish credibility anytime you deal and speak to people. \ 4. Always be respectful ofyour audience.  Following the “Golden Rule”will help you avoid ethical problems. 5. Avoidfallacies.  If you always strive to use sound reasoning tempered by critical thinking, you canskillfully avoid short circuits to reasonable thoughts that are known to be fallacies THIRD FUNCTION: TO ENTERTAIN, HONOR, OR PRAISE, AND SO ON This function refers to some other purposes of communication, specifically those that mark thedaytoday  life.  Christening,  weddings,  funerals,  graduations,  award  ceremonies,  inaugurals,retirement dinners, they are very special to the people who take part in them. Being special,speeches delivered in these events differ from the information and persuasive speeches in thefollowing aspects. 1. Purpose.   The primary purpose of the informative speech is to teach while that of a persuasive speech isto change behaviors or beliefs. These purposes are just secondary to that of a specialoccasionpresentation whose primary purpose is to perform a rituala ceremonial act that is characterizedby qualities or procedures that are appropriate to the occasion. The ritualistic nature of specialoccasion  speeches  helps  bring  certainty  and  comfort  to  otherwise  stressful  events.  Theycommunicate to the audience what to expect, and they allow them and the attendees to share a common collective experience, such as accepting anaward or wishing a newly wedded couple good tidings.     2. Style  While informative and persuasive speeches use stylistic devices, like narratives,metaphors, similes, or analogies, specialoccasion speeches use highly stylistic or ornamentallanguage.    3. Organization  Though specialoccasion presentations, like any other speeches,have introduction, body, and conclusion, they have lessobvious transitions between the mainpoints. Insted, their ornamental styling may suggest more subtle and creative ways, and that arerelatively short.    4. Formality  They are a bit more formal, but formality refers more to thedegree of professionalism used by the speaker to share his ideas with this lettersThere are two general type of specialoccasion speech: the courtesy and ceremonial speech.Courtesy is about good manners and showing respect. Speech is when you say something outloud in front of people. Courtesy Speech is therefore about speaking in front of people withproper manners or showing respect.Speech of Introduction. It is designed to introduce a person by telling something about his/herlife. It is commonly brief but stating a huge information like the biography or any credentials ofthe person being introduced.There are approaches in making a speech introduction:The first one is the introduction. Use an anecdote or some story to establish the speaker beingintroduced. Followed by the body, which discuss his biography and qualifications. Lastly is theconclusion, it contains the summary of the qualification and ends by welcoming the speaker.Speech Presentation. This speech was presented when a person was awarded or given a specialgift. Speech of Acceptance is another kind of speech that delivered by recognizing, honoringand awarding the speaker.The second type of general speech is the ceremonial speeches. It usually part of formal activitiesthat brings the audience to the past, present and future. There are two examples of ceremonial speech, these are the Commencement Speech or knownas the graduation speech. The speaker must acknowledge the importance of the ceremony andhonors  the  graduates.  The Commemorative  Speech is  the  second  example  of  ceremonialspeech which means speech of praise or celebration. This speech gives tribute to a person, ag=group or an institution.Occasions are everywhere, it means that communication is always in the air. That is why weshould have the    Every year, thousands of students participate in various speech competitions sponsored byeither  schools  or  some  other  schools.  Speech  fall  into  categories  of  public  speaking  andinterpretation. Popular events include original oratory, extemporaneous speaking, and dramatichumorous interpretation. Original Oratory. The speaker is allowed to choose his topic and write his own speech about it.The speech, which needs careful and complete preparation, is memorized and limited to a tenminute delivery. Extemporaneous Speaking. Participants are required to choose one topic from several giventopics and prepare a five to seven minute speech on the topic. *Contestants are allowed 30 minutes to prepare their speeches. They are given access onlyto documents or background into that they have brought to the contest. They can use onenote card to guide them through the speech. Dramatic  and  Humorous  Interpretation. It  is  a  competitive  interpretation  event  whereparticipants are permitted to choose the materials they want to perform. Dramatic interpretationand humorous interpretation may be done separately or combined. This kind of performancegives the participants an opportunity to share their acting talents. Types of Speeches Based on DeliveryYou already know how to read, and you already know how to talk. But public speaking isneither reading nor talking. Speaking in public is more formal than talking. You should presentyourself professionally, meaning make yourself presentable by being well groomed and wearingclean,  appropriate  clothes.  It  also  means  being  prepared  to  use  language  correctly  andappropriately depending on the kind of audience you have and the topic to be discussed. A goodspeaker will also think about the delivery method, or  the  way in  which  the speech  will beconveyed to the audience. There are four types of speeches to the mode of delivery that can help you balance between toomuch  and  too  little  formality  when  giving  a  public  speech.  These  are impromptu,extemporaneous, manuscript (or read), and memorized. Impromptu Speech. This is a speech that has no earlier planning or practice. Reflecting back onyour speech, you are probably thingking about what you could have done better. Your black eyemay very well be the catalyst for your regret in making those word choices. Some speeches playit a little safer. Tjey are a combination of a researched speech and an offthecuff speech. Here is a stepbystep thay may be useful if you are called upon to give an impromptu speech inpublic. Take a moment to collect your thoughts and plan the main point you want to make. Thank the person for inviting you to speak. Deliver your message, making your main point as briefly as you can while still coveringit adequately and at a pace your listeners can follow. Thank the person again for the opportunity to speak. Stop talking. Advantages of Impromptu Speech1. It gives you an opportunity to present ideas, make appeals, or disseminate information at atime must needed by the listeners, which may have some value and impact. 2. It also provides you with a chance to improve your image in the minds of the audience. 3. It allows for spontaneity, which requires minimal planning and practiceDisadvantages of Impromptu Speech 1. It often results in poor performance; it is very likely that you are going to ramble, wander,and waste not only your time but also that of the audience.2. It makes you nervous; although you realize the situation may not come up often, you arestill worried about you’re not being able to do a good job.3. It does discourages audience adaptation.4. It discourages planned research.5. It has uncertain outcomes.Extemporaneous SpeechIt  is  the  presentation  of  a  carefully  planned  and  rehearsed  speech,  spoken  in  aconversational manner using brief notes. By using notes rather than a full manuscript.These are possible occasions for the delivery of an extemporaneous speech.1. Campaigns2. Fundraising activities3. Seminar lectures4. Reports to government agencies5. Talks about a trip, a study, or an event6. State of the nation addresses (SONAs) 7. Class reports8. Sales9. BriefingsYou  can  boost  your  selfconfidence  and  successfully  go  through  the  delivery  of  yourextemporaneous speech by observing these tips (Lull & Coopman, 2012)1. Starting your speech a. Move to the front of the room or stage and face the audience.b. Assume a relaxed but upright position.c. Plant your feet apart, a bit less than your shoulder width, and allow your arms to hangloosely by your side.d. Arrange your notes before you start to speak.e. Look at your audience and smile.2. Gesturesa. Feel free to use your hands to gesture, but do not plan all your gestures ahead of time.Gestures should flow naturally from your feelings.b. Do your best to avoid nervous mannerisms, such as twisting your hair, wringing yourhands, shifting your weight from one foot to the other, or tapping your fingers on thelectern.3. Eye Contact a. Look at the left, right, and center part of the room.b. Eye contact with the audience does not mean to speak excessively to one or twosympathetic individuals.4. Voicea. Try to use your voice as expressively as you would in normal conversation.b. Make a conscious effort to speak up, slow down, and project clearly.c. Concentrate on projecting your voice to the back of the room and fight against racingthrough your speech.d.Advantages of Extemporaneous Speech (Lull & Coopman, 2012)1. It gives more precise control over thought and language.2. It offers greater spontaneity and directness.3. It is adaptable to a wide range of situations.4. It also encourages the conversational quality audience look for in speech delivery.5. It appears effortless.6. It invites bodily movements, gestures, and rapid nonverbal response.Disadvantages of Extemporaneous Speech (Lull & Coopman, 2012) 1. Too much preparation is involved2. It  is  a  potential  for  miscommunication  because  of  unpredictable  spontaneous  wordchoices.Manuscript (or read) Speech This written our speech is read in it’s entirety when delivers. The following situations callfor this kind of speech.1. Ceremonial speeches, such as eulogies, tributes, and awards 2. Political speeches 3. Radio and TV speeches4. Presentation of a policy Advantages of Manuscript speech (Lull & Coopman, 2012) 1. Generally,  the  complete  manuscript  prevents  slip  of  the  tongue,  poor  wording,  anddistortion of ideas.2. It often boosts your confidence as presenter because you are assured of the security of amanuscript.Disadvantages of Manuscript Speech 1. Manuscripts frequently reduce eye contact because you are more focused on readingrather observing the audience.2. It hinders audience adaptation. As you read, you usually fail to watch the audience; thismakes it quite difficult for you to observe audience feedback, so you fail to give themrequired suitable response.3. Reading limits your use of gestures to emphasize or illustrate points.4. Vocal variety may also be lacking because you read the bulk of your presentation.5. The  pacing  of  the  presentation  may  become  too  rapid  or  too  slow,  and  instead  ofsounding conversational, your speech may sound like an essay being read.6. To minimize the problems of a manuscript delivery, take note of these tips and followthem.a. Write the speech wordforword in an oral style, using short sentences and fragmentsand incorporating strategies, such as personalized language and rhetorical questionsthat help you connect with the audience and avoid very formal, unnatural language.b. Rehearse by reading each sentence aloud several times, absorbing the meaning ofeach phrase to allow you to use the muchneeded appropriate nonverbal language.c. Read the entire manuscript aloud and decide which ideas need emphasis (highlight orunderline them) and where you want to pause (use slash) to achieve the emphasisd. Read the manuscript once again, emphasizing words, pausing, and looking up  asmuch as Possible for audience feedback. Go back and change any wording that doesnot sound like you are actually speaking.Memorized Speech It is a speech that you as a speaker needs to deliver by rote. Memorization can be usefulwhen the message has to be exact to avoid any misunderstanding, and when the speaker does notwant to be confined by notes.This type of speech is utilized in situation like the following: 1. Oratorical competitions2. Presentation of highlevel awards 3. Welcoming very important dignitaries4. Political speeches5. Banquet speechesAdvantages of Memorized Speech (Lull & Coopman, 2012) 1. It permits maximum use of delivery skills; every variation in the voice can be mastered,every oral paragraph stated in correct cadence, and every word correctly pronounced atthe right volume.2. You can have continuous eye contact.3. Bodily movements and gestures are free.4. While the memorized method does not eliminate your trying to recall or search for thenext word, you are simply searching your memory instead of notes or manuscripts.Disadvantages of Memorized Speech Lull & Coopman, 2012)1. It permits little or no adaptation during delivery. You are likely to focus more on theinternalized (or memorized) manuscripts than on the listeners. If the audience appears tohave missed a point, you have difficulty in explaining the point greater detail.2. Recovery is more is more difficult if you make a mistake. If you forgot a line, you haveto search for the exact place where you dropped your line.3. For beginning speakers, the presentation sounds memorized; the word is too smooth, thepacing too contrived and the presentation is too much of a performance instead of acommunicative experience.4. It takes a substantial time to prepare and memorize.Like any of the other speech types discussed based on the mode of delivery, there are alsoremedies or tips that you can bear in mind for an effective memorized delivery.1. Write your talk on it’s entirety, again using oral style. You can aid your memory by usingvivid , easytorecall language, such as alliterated main points or parallel wording.2. Commit your speech to memory line by line first, and then chunk by chunk. As yourehearse a line, think about it’s meaning to help you learn it by rote and remember it moreeasily.3. Practice  speaking  conversationally  as  if  you  are  talking  to  each  audience  memberindividually every time you repeat what you memorize.4. Finally, take note cards with key terms to the podium in case you find yourself forgetting. here are the three major types ofcommunication for various purposesinformative communication persuasivecommunication and argumentativecommunicationso first what is informativecommunicationthe main purpose of informative orexpository communication or writing isto simply convey information factuallyit involves giving than askingits goal is to input new learningenhance prior language confirm a conceptalleviate comprehension of an idea orexplain a process or procedurethe informative value of a message ismeasured by how novel and relevant theinformation is or the kind ofunderstanding it provides the receiversthere are four nature of informativecommunicationaccording to lucas 2012providing information usually deals withobjects processes events and conceptsthe first nature of informativecommunication is objects it may includeanything that is visible tangible andstable in firmthey may be nonliving or living such asplaces structures animals and evenpeoplesecond is processes it may comprise anysystematic series of actions that leadsto a specific result or productcommunication about processes explainshow something is made how something isdone or how something worksthird is events it can be anything thathappens or is regarded as happeningthe last one is concepts it may consistof beliefs theories ideasprinciples and the like they are moreabstract than objects processes oreventsso formal situations requiringinformation communicationin the world outside your schoolspeakers find a variety of opportunitiesfor giving the following types ofinformative talksthe first one is the public lectureas a result of a person's specialinterest or expertisehe may be invited to give a publiclecture to a community group or clubsomeone who had an intensive research onherbal medicinefor examplemight be invited to give a lecture tovarious clubs and organizationsinterested in the topic second is thestatus reportevery business or social group must bekept up to date on its various projectsperiodically the group will ask aneligible person to give a status reportindicating what has been accomplished sofarand what plan exists for the futuresuppose you are the committee chair of avolunteer organization that works withsenior citizens in your communityand your committee is planning a formaldance for the seniorsyou may be asked to give the committee astatus report and possible venues ofaffairthe third one is the briefingthis is a very common informative speechused to tell members of a group aboutchanges in policy or procedurefor instance you may need to tell themembers of your swimming team about howto order tshirts for team or about anew layout planfourththe fireside chatsthis usually features a group leaderaddressing the concernsworries and issues at the momentthe principle of a senior high schoolfor instance may schedule a firesidechat with the parents of the senior highschool students to review school goalsand policieslastly the chalk talk the speaker givinga chalk talk relies on a visual aid suchas a chalkboard as an example imagine acoachshowing the team how to execute thepersontoperson category of teamdefense or a director outlining plans topresent a stage playnext is the organizational patterns forinformative speechesthere are four of them and the first oneis the chronological patternthis pattern allows you to explain howsomeone or something has developed overa period of timewith this pattern you highlight theimportance of each step in thatdevelopmentthe second pattern is the spatialpatternthis pattern allows you to describe thephysical or directional relationshipbetween objects or placesthe pattern works well with informativespeeches about objects placespeople or any other living creaturesyou can best use it to highlight certainlocations areas or spaces in aparticular place third one is thetopical patternin the topical pattern you divide yourtopic into subtopics that address thecomponents elements or aspects of thetopicif you want your audience to understanda process use the topical pattern todescribe the main features of theprocessand lastlythe narrative patternthe narrative pattern used to retell astory or a series of short storiesit has much in common with achronological pattern but it provides astronger emphasis on the dramaticunfolding of event sothere are seven guidelines forinformative speakingso according to jaffe 2010 a commoncomplaint about informational speakingis it's being boringto keep your audience's attention and tobe both understandable and relevantremember these guidelines for producingcomprehensible effective messagesso the first guidelines for informativespeaking isdo an obstacle analysis of the audienceidentify the parts of the message thatthe audience might find hard tounderstand and work on specific ways tomake these sections clearalsoyou have to identify internal barriersthat could prevent them from learningyour materialsyou have to plan ways to deal with eachobstacleso the second is organize the materialcarefullyyou have to state your major pointsclearlyand build on signposts such as next andin additionthat can help them identify the flow ofideasso the third one is personalize yourmaterial to your audienceyou have to help the listeners see theconnection between your topic and theirexperiences their goals beliefs andactionsif they find the information aspersonally relevantthey will be more likely to listen andlearn effectivelyfourthcompare the known to the unknownso you have to start with what isfamiliar to your audience and build onthis foundationshowing similarities and differencesbetween your topic and what yourlisteners already knowso the fifth guidelines for informationinformative speaking ischoose your vocabulary carefullyso you have to avoid bewildering yourlisteners with technical information anincomprehensible jargon by defining yourterms and explaining them and every dayconcrete imagesavoid words that could triggerunfavorable connotations which might setoff negative reaction reactions in theaudienceso the six guidelinesfor informative speaking isbuilt on repetition and redundancy sorepetition means that you say the sameidea several times sodo this by developing it somewhatdifferently each timephrases such as in other wordsand put simply are ways to build on orachieve redundancyso repeat and redefine the criticalparts of the message to reinforce thesecrucial points in your listeners mindsand the last one isstrive to be interestingso you have to search for some ways toeleven your factual materialexamples and detailed description forinstanceengage your audience in a conversationalmanner because they invite yourlisteners to form mental images as youtalkthat's all for the informativecommunicationi hope you learn and understand thetopic that i tackled this morningand now let's call on miss la pined todiscuss the second major type ofcommunication for various purposesthank you miss marvelisapersuasive communication is the processthrough which people try to persuadeothers to change their ideas orbehaviorspeople who are important to each otherare often involved in persuasivecommunicationparents influence children childreninfluence parents and friends influenceone anotherstrangers are regularly involved inpersuasive communication such asadvertisingpersuasive communicationis important in a variety of professionssuch as lawyers salespersons advertisingspecialists public relations experts andpoliticians must use persuasivecommunication while persuasivecommunication may not be the centralingredient in many professions mostpeople need to be able to influenceothers in the work related settingseveryone is exposed to at least 150commercials on television according tolucas 2012 politicians an advertisingsalesperson or sales salespeople competefor your attention vote money time andsupport as do interests groups offundraisers and community eventswhen you talk to persuade your acting asan advocate the more you understandabout persuasion the more effective youwill be at your at using your criticalthinking skills to examine thebombardment of persuasive messages youare exposed on a daily basis you areacting as an advocate when you speak topersuade your goal is to persuade youraudience to agree with you and possiblyact on that view your goal could be todefend an idea refute an opponent tosell a program or persuade people totake an actionto put it simply persuasion is theprocess of forming reinforcing orchanging people's beliefs or behaviorsthe ability to speak and writepersuasively will benefit you in allaspects of your life from personalrelationships to community activities toemployment opportunities it's alsonecessary for you to be a wellinformedcitizen or consumerthe difference between informative andpersuasive communicationis that informative speakers take on therole of a subject expert and seek tofacilitate the audience crafts thesubject while persuasive speaker or onthe other hand play the position ofpromoter or proponent advocating for aspecific point of view on a topic thatthey want the audience to adopt apersuasive speaker not only becomes anexpert on the subject but also goesbeyond advocating for the audience toaccept a given point of view he takes astrong stance on a topic which or whereare as informative speaker he remainsneutralagain a persuasive speaker takes astrong stance on a topic while aninformative speaker he remainsin neutralinformation speech about music recordingtechnology for example the speaker wouldintroduce the topic by outlining thehistory of recording music while apersuasive speaker would agree argue fora particular point of view on thesubject such as the sound quality of thenail is superior to that of digitalmedianext is the elements of persuasionso persuasive speeches are intended topersuade influence othersas a result they require more advancedbuilding pieces to accomplish thatpurposeone of the first to theorize aboutpersuasion is aristotlehe argues thatmessages are founded in three elementsorgrooves namely ethus pathosand logosathensethis this is a greek word that meanscharacter the speaker is attempting toinfluence others by using authoritativeand trustworthy course or support of themessage like for example as a mother offive healthy ethers i can assure youthat introducing vegetables to babies asearly as possible avoids fuzzy fittingssecond is pathos this refers to thespeaker's emotional appealpathos can be used by a speakerto evoke the feelings of the audiencefor us by displaying photos to persuadethem to donate to charitableorganizations for exampleimagine your children facing a futurewithout younow is the time to give up drugs andestablish a healthyyouthird is logosthis entails employing logic to back upa speaker's claim and as a resultpersuade his audience one method is todevelop a current space that flowslogically through his argument stressingreasoning or including statistics andappropriate evidence and includingor concluding with a powerful conclusionfor exampledrug addiction is a disease thatdevelops over time what exactly do wemean when we say that drug addictiondevelops during these stages of our lifeduring adolescence and early adulthoodas we have learned from many years ofepidemiological studiesthis is a graph or a digitalpresentation that affects the age atwhich people begin to acquire amarijuana addictioncocaine nicotine and alcohol all havesimilar graftsthe pig in this situation is around theage of 18. if you haven't becomeaddicted to marijuana by the age of 25your chances of doing so is very minimalit isn't zero but it is minimalnext is types of persuasive speeches sopersuasive speeches cover three types ofquestionsfactvalue and policy while the goal of thesespeeches is to persuade an audience theconsequences vary this is according tolucas 2012so first is speeches on question of facta factual question is one that seeks toto determine whether something is trueor false the speaker tries to persuadean audience that something did or didnot occur or that event didin fact cause another like for examplein a criminal caseprosecution seeks to persuade the jurythat the dependent did engage in anillegal activitywhile the defense argues that thedefendant did notin this scenario the speaker shouldoffer sound trustworthy evidence hesupport his claims with examplestestimonials definitions and narrativesin addition to facts and figureshis purpose is to persuade the audiencetobelieve or accept that something is trueor false with a focus on reinforcing andinfluencing people's mindrather than their actionsthe organizational patterns for thisit are chronological spatial topical andcause and effectsecond type is speeches on a question ofvalue a question of value asks for asubjective evolution of something'sworthsignificance quality or condition thespeaker asserts that something is goodor awful right or wrong beautiful orugly boring or engaging humorous orserioushumors are serious all qualitativejudgments about the significance ofsomethingrather than showing anything to beabsolutely true or false it focuses onindividual opinion and cultural ideas itmay include a call for action but itdoes not demand that political or gut ororganizational policies be changedexplicitlyquestion a value can address timelessissues such as the morality of war ormore contemporary concerns such as theuse of social networking platforms forpersonal or ethical purposesthe pattern for developing speeches orquestions of value is eitherchronological or topicalthe third type ofumpersuasive speechesis speeches on question of policywhile a question of value makesjudgments about the topic and promotes aspeaker's judgment of the relevance ofsomethinga question of policy ask what specificcourse of action should be done or howan issue should be resolved or solvedquestion of policy may reflect currentcontroversies such as immigrationpolicies in the united states or lesscontentious topics such as getting moreexercisethese questions range from the generalsuch as encouraging democracy around theworld to the specific such as academicintegrity policies on campusspeeches on question policy ask theaudience to take or not take a certainaction or to support or not support aspecific perspective speakers may askfor immediate involvementgeneral support for a social orpolitical movement of some kind ofdisapproval of an idea or a change inbehaviorand that's all for persuasivecommunicationnext is miss luzon who will discussabout argumentative communicationokay thank you shine now that we havedone the informative and persuasivecommunication let's move onargumentative communicationso what is argumentative communicationday classargumentative communicationthis relies mainly on sound andreasoningthis involves asking why of an opinionthat also requires solid evidence tosupport your opinionthis is also an art of persuading baseand reason on facts and not on emotionsso when we say argumentativecommunication the eye it is to persuadeor to ascend the plausibility of thedebatable questionswhyin this you really need to give a reasonor evidence that supports your opinionor a reason that based on factsit is also important kasina when you arein argumenting tapat ke bhajid kasimkipanya whip and nakai reasoningthe speaker's purpose is to appeal tothe intellect of his or her listeners sothat they will be convinced so one ofthe most important sudden argumentationkai angmanga ojens orlisteners judeit is also to establish a framework toevaluate competing claims creates aforum in which individuals can voicetheir perspective on an issue thatprovides a structured process formeaning making and recent giving so manyargumentative communicationslaterokay next slide pleaseit is also said that argumentation orargumentative communication can bedebatingargumenting and augens so here indebating this explains or explainingreasons why a certain theory can beconsidered persuading so any debatingin a certain topic and all you have todo is to persuadehere in argumenting argumentignum1persuading the audience is to supportthe speakersofor for you to win an argumentation thespeakers must also persuade the ogenspodand lastly the old gens um it's the corefocus around which an effective debateis conceived and formulatedjust like in argumentative speeches andspeakers and what persuades amongaudience to take recite of them or tothe speakersnext slide pleasehoweverthere is a personality in argumentationsome people would argue out of habitalways need to be right make a fussabout most trivial things just a ghostconflictand almost always in the defensive sokanema personality guysthese kinds of personality are usuallyselfabsorbed no um you must havethem say with these kinds of phraseslike you're wrong sorrow sorry nooffense butyeah and then they often find fault witheverything or don't agree with anythingyou say and these people often called usquarrel some are scrappier dispersationsi know every one of or some of us hearsa guru nakasabut however if you are a debater ordebaters believe they have good reasonsfor the acceptance of their assertionsassertionsnarcissism acceptabilitystructure sufficiency and relevance inargumentationnext slide pleaseso here are the forms of proof accordingto aristotlethe logos ethosthis is actually only three forms ofproof renault by aristotle but years hadpassed the dragon andmythosso since these forms are i has alreadyexplained earlierinformative communication dilemmabut insteadthese three forms of the nature of proofhas been studied since the golden age ofgreece and has improved through timewhile in our time many scholars haveconfirmed the pre the presence of thefourth dimensionof proofwhich suggests that we respond toappeals to the traditions and values ofour culture and to the legendsand folktales that embody themnext slide pleasehere lucas 2007 also claims that avoiddefective argumentation the followingmust be avoided defective evidencemisuse evidence statistical fallaciesdefective testimonies inappropriateevidence anddefective patterns of reasoning andevidential fallaciesso here in defective evidenceit is an evidence that there issomething wrong with it or it does notwork properly money defective evidencewhile in misuse evidenceevidences or evidence uses and anyargument may be divided into fact andexpert opinionhowever to avoid misusing evidence wemust use or we must refer to firstdocumentation a claim and support anargument or reach a conclusionwhile in statistical fallaciesstatistical fallacies could be misusedof percentages prerelicious defectiveevidence but here in statisticalfallacies when we say statisticalmisuse of misuse of percentages meansand graphs and incomplete reporting thatsurprises fastthis may occur during to inadequatesample that is used for generalizedconclusiondefective testimonies this is alsocalled false testimonies wheretestimonies aren't true among testimonya testimony full of perjuriesand in appropriate evidencethis is a false or misleadinginformationwhile in defective patterns of reasoningmuslims are statistical fallacies buthere this occurs when the reasoningisn't supported by the data if anunstatistical fallacies came on a misuseof percentages means and graphs andmost of the young defective patterns ofreasoning uma reasoning that isn't supported by thedata well the evidential fallaciesfallacies can be either illegitimatearguments or irrelevant relevant pointsand are often identified because theylack evidence that supports their claimokay that's all forargumentative communication BASIC COMMUNICATION MODELAccording to Adler and Towne (1978), all that ever has been accomplished by humansand all that ever will be accomplished involves communication with others. Many socialand organizational problems derive from unsatisfactory relationships brought about byinadequate communication between people.Success on and off the job often stems from one’s ability to transfer informationand express ideas to others. Effective communication frequently results in friendshipsthat are more meaningful, smoother and more rewarding relationships with people onand off the job, and increased ability to meet personal needs. Psychologist AbrahamMaslow (1970) suggests that the capability to satisfy personal needs arises mainly fromthe ability to communicate.THE PROCESS OF COMMUNICATIONAdler and Towne describe communication as a process between at least two people thatbegins when one person wants to communicate with another. Communication originatesas mental images within a person who desires to convey those images to another. Mentalimages can include ideas, thoughts, pictures, and emotions. The person who wants tocommunicate is called the sender (see figure). To transfer an image to another person,the sender first must transpose or translate the images into symbols that receivers canunderstand. Symbols often are words but can be pictures, sounds, or sense information(e.g., touch or smell). Only through symbols can the mental images of a sender havemeaning for others. The process of translating images into symbols is called encoding.The Communication ModelOnce a message has been encoded, the next level in the communication process isto transmit or communicate the message to a receiver. This can be done in many ways:during facetoface verbal interaction, over the telephone, through printed materials(letters, newspapers, etc.), or through visual media (television, photographs). Verbal,written, and visual media are three examples of possible communication channels usedto transmit messages between senders and receivers. Other transmission channelsinclude touch, gestures, clothing, and physical distances between sender and receiver(proxemics).2 ❘❚ When a message is received by another person, a decoding process occurs. Just as asender must encode messages in preparation for transmission through communicationchannels, receivers must sense and interpret the symbols and then decode theinformation back into images, emotions, and thoughts that make sense to them. Whenmessages are decoded exactly as the sender has intended, the images of the sender andthe images of the receiver match, and effective communication occurs.HOW COMMUNICATION BREAKS DOWNIf everyone were to have the same experiences, all messages would be encoded,transmitted, and decoded alike. Symbols would have the same meanings for everyone,and all communication would be received as the senders intended. However, peoplediffer in their personal histories, ways in which they experience things, and emotionalresponses, leading to differences in the ways in which communications are encoded,transmitted, received, and understood. Different people attach different meanings to thewords, pictures, sounds, and gestures used during communication.Difficulty with the encoding and decoding of images is not the only factor thataffects the effectiveness of communication between people. Adler and Towne use theconcept of noise to describe physical and psychological forces that can disruptcommunication.Physical noise refers to conspicuous distractions in the environment that make itdifficult to hear or pay attention. For example, when the environment is excessively hotor excessively cold, or when one is in a noisy nightclub, one may tend to focus moreconcern on the situation than on the message. Physical noise can inhibit communicationat any point in the process—in the sender, in the message, in the channel, or in thereceiver.Psychological noise alludes to mechanisms within individuals that restrict asender’s or receiver’s ability to express and/or understand messages clearly. Forexample, senders with limited vocabularies may have difficulty translating images intosymbols that can be understood easily by receivers. Receivers with inflated selfconcepts may filter messages that disagree with their selfperceptions and put energyinto defending themselves rather than into understanding the messages. Psychologicalnoise most often results in defensiveness that blocks the flow of communicationbetween sender and receiver.With the many ways in which communications can be encoded, channeled, anddecoded, there is little wonder why so many difficulties exist when people attempt tocommunicate with one another. Yet communication processes become more complex.Discussing communication in terms of senderreceiver implies oneway communication.However, human communication often is a twoway process in which each party sharessending and receiving responsibilities. As the quantity of people taking part in acommunication increases, the potential for errors in encoding and decoding increases,along with the potential for physical and psychological noise. ❚❘ 3REFERENCESAdler, R., & Towne, N. (1978). Looking out/looking in (2nd ed.). New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.Maslow, A. (1970). Motivation and personality. New York: Harper & Row.The Communication Model ❚❘ 5❚❘ CONVERGENCE STRATEGIESWalt Boshear and Karl Albrecht developed the convergencestrategies model to dealwith the concept of motion in relationships between people. It leads to deliberatestrategies for establishing, maintaining, and improving relationships.STABLE, CONVERGING, OR DIVERGING RELATIONSHIPSThe model categorizes all relationships as stable, converging, or diverging. In a stablerelationship, two persons have reached a conscious or unconscious agreement regardingthe ways in which they will relate to each other. They avoid any behavior that willchange the relationship. On the other hand, relationships that are in a state of change canbe either converging or diverging. A converging relationship is changing in ways thatenhance the benefits of the relationship to the participants. A diverging relationship ischanging in ways that tend to destroy the relationship or detract from its benefits to theparticipants.Personal Versus Impersonal RelationshipsAny of the three types of relationships can be predominantly personal or predominantlyimpersonal. At the personal extreme, the egoinvolvement of the participants—theirattitudes, beliefs, and feelings—are an integral part of the relationship. On the otherhand, emotional and personal issues are not considered in the impersonal relationshipand generally will be disruptive to it if they arise.A premise of the model is that forces, such as the consequences of growing up andthe mores of Western culture, push individuals in the direction of impersonal, stablerelationships. From birth through adolescence, individuals are cast in roles ofdependency and inadequacy. They are surrounded by people who, by virtue of their ageand experience, are better able to cope with their environment and who have been placedin positions of authority by cultural tradition. In Western culture, individuals are taughtto control their emotions and follow the traditions of society. They are stronglyencouraged to refrain from making any emotional attachments except those that areapproved by society, such as courtship, marriage, and a few close friendships.In addition to the forces of culture that guide the individual in establishing andmaintaining relationships with people, there are the forces of time and exposure. Thehuman intellectual and emotional system is highly adaptive and it tends toward stability.Experiences that initially may provoke a strong intellectual or emotional response will,when sustained or repeated, tend to elicit a lesser response.The figure diagrams the structure of the model and the relationships between itselements. The internal arrows indicate the natural course of relationships under the6 ❘❚ influence of time, exposure, and cultural forces. A relationship that originates with orpresently has the characteristics described in any of the squares in the diagram tends toprogress in the direction shown by the arrows. However, this progress is contingent onthe absence of deliberate strategies by the participants or disruptive events outside therelationship.DIVERGING STABLE CONVERGINGIMPERSONAL PERSONALCombat SharingandCooperationCaringandInterdependenceCompetitionorWithdrawalRepetitionandCoexistenceCreativityandInnovationThe Impact of Cultural Forces on RelationshipsStable relationships tend to remain stable, but will, through time, incline towardrepetitive behaviors and coexistence of the participants. Probably the most typicalexample is the course of many courtships and marriages. Initially a man and womandevelop a highly personal, caring relationship. As they spend more time together, therelationship converges, and the personal stake that each feels in the relationshipincreases. At the point of marriage and during the early honeymoon phase, they are atthe peak of a highintensity, interdependent phase. As time goes by and each becomesmore familiar with the other, the relationship stabilizes as a warm, personal marriage ofsharing and cooperation. If the marriage partners are not innovative in keeping theirrelationship on a personal basis, it gradually becomes more and more impersonal until,in many cases, they can be said only to be sharing the same residence. They reach ahighly repetitive, impersonal, coexistent phase that may go on indefinitely unless it isdisrupted and goes into competition, withdrawal or combat. Then the relationship tendsto restabilize at the same or lower level of personal commitment or deteriorate throughcompetition or withdrawal.If the individuals in a relationship want to increase their personal involvement, theymust learn and apply deliberate strategies to cause converging to happen and to maintainthe new relationship. Suggested by the model, the following are some applicablestrategies.Awareness of process. Individuals who are involved in a relationship should beaware of the process of that relationship. This requires them to learn about relationshipsin general and acquire a conceptual framework and vocabulary for monitoring theprogress of their own relationship. ❚❘ 7Allocation of time. Whether or not the relationship involves a task (e.g., problem,sport, hobby), at least some time should be devoted to maintaining the relationship andmeeting the individual needs of the participants. Although those needs may not directlybe a part of the relationship, they must be dealt with in order for the individuals tocontinue in the relationship.Communication skills. On one hand, verbal language provides more opportunitiesfor misunderstanding than for understanding, and on the other hand, many things thatare vitally important to a relationship cannot be verbalized at all. Consequently, peopleshould develop their skills in both verbal and nonverbal communication about a widerange of subjects that may be relevant to the relationship, such as emotions, feelings,thoughts, ideas, beliefs, suspicions, fears, and apprehensions.Options for behaving and feeling. Any extended relationship between peopleplaces numerous demands on their behavior and feelings. In order to respond to thesesituations in ways that are appropriate and beneficial to the relationship, the participantsneed to develop a range of options for behavior and feelings. For example, person Aestablishes a normal pattern of being understanding whenever person B takes advantageof their friendship. Repetition of that behavior can establish such strong reinforcementthat A may feel that he or she has lost the option to become angry about it. The reversemay also be true: an established pattern of anger may lead to the loss of the option to beunderstanding.Willingness to risk. Disturbing a “safe” and “satisfactory” relationship can lead toimproving the benefits of the relationship for the participants, but it requires theirwillingness to take emotional risks. They must be willing and able to trust each otherand to expose themselves to anger, fear, joy, and even rejection as a “down payment” ondeeper understanding and more rewarding relationships.USE OF THE MODELThe concept of convergence strategies can lead to structured or unstructured experiencesthat can be used in counseling and training sessions to enable individuals to learn andpractice the skills and strategies for counteracting the forces of time, exposure, andculture. Many examples can be found to demonstrate the inferences and operation of themodel. Presented early in a learning session, the model can serve as a frequent referencepoint to evoke an understanding of the ongoing processes and the reason for learningsuch skills. Because the model focuses directly on the cultural forces that will act onindividuals as they leave the isolation of the learning environment, it can be used toprepare individuals for the reentry process. It provides a conceptual framework forexamining the probable consequences of these cultural forces and the options that areavailable to counteract them.The model is slightly more complex than many, requiring longer to develop andexplore. Frequently, clarifying the concepts and exploring relevant examples lengthen8 ❘❚ the presentation and discussion. This extended focus on the model can distract groupmembers from a “hereandnow” orientation.SourceBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.CombatSharingandCooperationCaringandInterdependenceCompetitionorWithdrawalRepetitionandcoexistenceCreativityandInnovationThe Impact of Cultural Forces on RelationshipsIMPERSONAL PERSONALDIVERGING STABLE CONVERGING10 ❘❚ ❚❘ EFFECTIVE NEGOTIATIONLife includes abundant opportunities and reasons to negotiate. Whether the subject issalary, who walks the dog, or the size of nuclear arsenals, negotiation usually is theprocess by which we make decisions and allocate resources. Despite its importance inevery aspect of existence, most of us know very little about the art of negotiation. Formost people, successful negotiation is splitting the difference. For example, Jane mightsay that she wants $185 for her old skis, Stan might say that he will pay $150, and theyagree on a price of $167.50.Roger Fisher, William Ury, and their colleagues at the Harvard Negotiation Projecthave studied negotiation systematically. In their book, Getting to Yes: NegotiatingAgreement Without Giving In, Fisher and Ury (1981) criticize “splitting the difference”as an unimaginative and often unsatisfactory compromise in a nonprincipled negotiation.They also describe how to negotiate effectively.PRINCIPLED VERSUS POSITIONAL BARGAININGAccording to Fisher and Ury, the most common mistake that negotiators make is tobargain over positions rather than principles. When Jane says that she will not sell herused skis for less than $185, and Stan says that he will not pay more than $150, the twoparties are locked into positions from which neither can retreat gracefully. What is more,both the buyer’s and the seller’s positions seem to be somewhat arbitrary; thenegotiation lacks any principled basis for determining a fair market value for the skis.One possible outcome is that positional bargaining will cause negotiations to breakdown, perhaps because offering an intermediate price is an admission that previousstatements were untruthful. On the other hand, the parties may split the difference,enabling them to reach agreement. However, that form of compromise often produceswhat Fisher and Ury call “an unwise agreement”—one that fails to serve the underlyinginterests of either party. Jane will not get the full $185 she wanted in order to pay off thebalance on her creditcard bill, and Stan will spend more than he budgeted for the usedskis.Hard and Soft NegotiationFisher and Ury believe that positional bargaining only permits the negotiator to adoptone of two stances. The negotiator can play the game softly, or the negotiator can playthe game hard. For instance, if the seller lowers her price to $150, then she may havecaved in to the buyer’s hard pressure. Likewise, the buyer might dislike haggling overmoney because it makes him nervous, and he might meet the seller’s demand byadopting a soft stance in the negotiation. ❚❘ 11The soft negotiator places a higher value on the feelings and relationships of thebargainers than on the substance of the transaction. Hence, soft negotiators will give inon crucial points to promote good feelings, will retreat from their positions, will acceptoutcomes unfair to themselves in order to facilitate a deal, and will avoid conflict at allcosts. If the soft negotiator’s bargaining partner has adopted a hard posture, the softnegotiator is likely to be exploited. On the other hand, if a soft negotiator’s adversaryalso has adopted a soft stance, the two may compete to accommodate each other in anegotiation whose sloppy outcome might be damaging to both parties. The example thatFisher and Ury give of the damage that can occur when two softies get together is O.Henry’s story, The Gift of The Magi, in which the husband sold his watch to buy combsfor his beloved wife’s hair, while she sold her hair to buy an elegant watch chain forhim.Hard negotiation places greater value on the issues or things in the transaction thanon the relationships of the bargainers. Hard negotiators will require their negotiationpartners to give ground as a price for maintaining the relationship, will hold tenaciouslyto their positions, will exact unfair outcomes in return for arriving at agreements, andwill attempt to win battles of wills.Principled NegotiationPrincipled negotiation transcends the contest over positions that typifies both hard andsoft approaches to negotiation. Instead of deciding whether to play a “hard” or “soft”game, principled negotiators negotiate on the basis of merit. Fisher & Ury (1981, p. 13)observe that:■ Soft negotiators are soft on the people and the problem.■ Hard negotiators are hard on the problem and the people.■ Principled negotiators are soft on the people, hard on the problem.THE FOUR STRATEGIES OF PRINCIPLED NEGOTIATIONThe members of the Harvard Negotiation Project conclude that principled negotiation ismore likely to produce wise agreements than is positional negotiation. The middle panelin the large table lists the four main strategies of a principled negotiator, and the sidepanels summarize the corresponding strategies of soft and hard negotiators.Strategy One: Issues, Not PersonalitiesIn any negotiation, the parties have an interest both in the substance of the matter and inthe relationships between themselves. Positional bargaining swaps the interest in therelationship for the interest in the substance; principled negotiation attempts to preserveboth interests by separating the personality questions from the substantive interests.This can be done as follows:12 ❘❚ Three Approaches to Negotiation1. Recognize the legitimacy of differences in perception. Understanding the otherside’s point of view is not a hazard to be avoided in the process of negotiation; itis the main benefit of accurate and clear communication and it makes creativeagreements possible.2. Structure proposals so that the other side can go along with them without “losingface.”3. Accept and deal with the emotions of both sides in the negotiation. Permit thepeople on the other side to express their emotions, and adopt the rule “only oneperson can get angry at a time.” That way it is legitimate for both sides to relievepressure, but the negotiation will not end in uproar and mutual recrimination.4. During negotiations, use techniques of effective communication, such as activelistening, speaking to be comprehended, and using Imessages rather thanaccusatory youmessages.5. Work to prevent the deterioration of the relationship. Structure the negotiation sothat the parties jointly confront the problem instead of each other. Rather thansquaring off on opposite sides of the bargaining table, it helps to sit at the sameside of the table, jointly facing the relevant documents.Strategy Two: Breaking Out of the Position TrapIn the negotiation over the secondhand skis, although Stan had previously stated that hewould not pay more than $150 for Jane’s skis, his real interest was to stick to his budget.Jane’s position was that she would take no less than $185 for the skis, although her realEffective NegotiationSOFT PRINCIPLED HARDGive in on crucialpoints to promotegood feelingsRetreat frompositionsAccept unfair outcomes in order topermit arriving ata dealAvoid conflict atall costsDeal with issues ofthe negotiation notthe personalitiesBreak out of theposition trapSeek winwinoutcomesTry to base negotiation outcomes onobjective standardsRequire others togive ground as priceto maintain therelationshipHold tenaciously topositionsExact unfairoutcomes as pricefor arriving at a dealAttempt to win acontest of resolve14 ❘❚ interest was to raise sufficient cash to pay off her creditcard bill. Both are in theposition trap.Fisher and Ury suggest breaking out of the position trap by identifying interests.There are at least four ways in which to identify interests in a negotiation:1. The most obvious way to identify interests is for negotiating partners topersistently ask each other why they have adopted particular positions or resistedtheir negotiating partner’s positions. The answer almost always will be that aninterest is served by the position or thwarted by the other side’s position.2. Talk directly about interests.3. As interests are exposed, write them down. Keep a list.4. Treat the other side’s interests as legitimate, at least for them.Fisher and Ury also remind us that although it is not a good idea to commit oneselfto one’s position, it is necessary to commit to one’s interests.This is the place in a negotiation to spend your aggressive energies . . . . Often the wisest solutions,those that produce the maximum gain for you at the minimum cost to the other side, are producedonly by strongly advocating your interests. Two negotiators, each pushing hard for their interests,will often stimulate each other’s creativity in thinking up mutually advantageous solutions. (pp.5657)Strategy Three: Creatively Seeking WINWIN OutcomesOne of the reasons why many people dread negotiations is that most of their experienceinvolves positional bargaining, which often produces losers and winners. Positionalbargaining is a winlose game, and nobody wants to be the one who loses. Frustratingdeadlocks or mechanical splits of the difference also occur. In almost every case, thepositional bargaining process feels stressfully competitive, sometimes frustrating evenfor those who did not actually experience defeat. It takes some creativity to generate thewinwin outcomes called for by principled negotiation. However, if the underlyinginterests of both parties have been identified, it becomes possible to invent agreementsthat will satisfy the interests of both parties.For instance, recognition of Jane’s underlying interest in paying off her creditcardbill and Stan’s interest in budget discipline suggests a creative alternative in which bothparties are winners. Jane apparently values paying off the bill more than possessing skiequipment. Stan, who values adherence to his budget, will not be able to ski unless healso has obtained ski poles, gloves, boots, and other equipment. If Stan is willing topurchase some more equipment from Jane, she may obtain the money she needs to payoff her creditcard bill, and Stan might be able to stick to his budget for the skis while hebuys other equipment at or near the price he has budgeted for it. ❚❘ 15Strategy Four: Objective StandardsPrincipled negotiation seeks standards outside the will of the negotiators fordetermination of a fair and wise agreement. If Stan decides to buy Jane’s ski poles aswell as her skis, the interests of the two parties—his budget and her financialrequirements—might determine the prices. Alternatively, and more fairly, the pricescould be determined by an objective standard, such as a catalog of secondhand pricesprepared by a skiing publication, an average of prices in local classified advertisements,or the prices charged by a nearby secondhand store. It may be that the skis are worth asmuch or more than Jane first demanded, in which case she should consider findinganother buyer or Stan should consider revising his budget. If the objective price comesout lower than Jane’s original position, she may need to consider meeting her interestsby selling more equipment. Alternatively, she may need to revise her goal of paying offthe creditcard bill this month or in this way.A TACTIC FOR THE UNDERDOGMuch of the preceding discussion may seem to imply that principled negotiation takesplace between equally powerful negotiating partners. However, that is not always thecase. Fisher and Ury say that a skillful negotiator always should be aware of his or her“BATNA—Best Alternative to a Negotiated Agreement.” A negotiator who knows whathis or her alternatives are is less desperate to reach agreement and less likely to bepressured into accepting “an offer that can’t be refused,” even though he or she is theunderdog.Assuming that Jane is the underdog, because she needs the money more desperatelythan Stan needs the skis, she will be under substantial pressure to accede to his pricedemands. However, if she knows that borrowing the money she needs from a friend isher BATNA, at some point she could break off the negotiation with Stan, rather thanagree to an unfair price.GETTING THE OTHER SIDE TO PLAY BY THE SAME RULESPositional bargaining is seductive. If “A” enters a negotiation with the best intents toconduct principled bargaining, the other party, “B,” might criticize A’s principledproposal and dig in behind a position. This might lead A to defend the proposal andmake it a position from which he or she cannot easily retreat.In order to avoid the seduction of potentially fruitless, positional bargaining, Fisherand Ury recommend the following:1. Probe beneath the other side’s position to identify the underlying principles.2. Allow the people on the other side to ventilate their emotions. Recast theirpersonal attacks as attacks on the predicament in which both parties findthemselves.16 ❘❚ 3. Put proposals in the form of questions to which the other side can respond withinformation rather than in the form of assertions. (The other side is likely torespond to assertions with rejections and intractable position statements.)4. Respond to the other side’s positional assertions with silence. (The silenttreatment will provoke more statements and possibly some reasonableproposals.)To get both sides to play by the rules, Fisher and Ury also suggest the use of a thirdparty intervention method called the “onetext procedure.” In the onetext procedure, theintervenor listens to both sides and presents a written proposal based on the statementsof the two sides. Each side submits its criticism of the proposal, and the intervenor thenrevises the text of the proposal and resubmits it to the two sides. This process is repeateduntil the negotiation fails or—more optimistically—the intervenor has produced a text towhich each side can give its assent. According to Fisher and Ury, in 1978, the UnitedStates performed the intervenor role in a onetext negotiation that resulted in the CampDavid Accords between Israel and Egypt.OVERCOMING SKULDUGGERYNot everybody plays fair or negotiates in good faith. Fisher and Ury recommend ways tocounteract several typical, badfaith negotiating tactics.DeceitSome negotiators might attempt to defraud their adversaries or might conceal ormisrepresent their lack of authority to conclude an agreement. Without calling the otherside liars, express doubts or seek verifications. If they really mean to live up to theiragreement, they ought not to object to putting it in writing and providing materialsafeguards against the contingency that they default on the deal. If one must negotiatewith particular people, it is not unfair to insist on knowing what their bargainingauthority is. Deception regarding authority could unfairly give the other side “a secondbite at the apple.” It could reach an agreement, claim the lack of authority toconsummate it, and then seek further concessions.Head GamesSome people will attempt to use psychological ploys to confuse, intimidate, or deceivetheir adversaries. Recognizing the ploys is half the solution; sometimes explicitlyconfronting them is the other half. For instance, if it seems that one deliberately has beenseated so that the sun will be in one’s eyes, it is legitimate to say, “I might be wrong, butit seems as though you placed me so the sun will be in my eyes; do you mind if weexchange seats or move where that won’t be a problem for either of us?” Alternatively,one may opt to ignore the games, rather than to negotiate a change in the obnoxiouscondition. ❚❘ 17Tying Their Own HandsCertain negotiators might manipulate the situation so that they are unable to reciprocatethe concessions that their opponents will need to make to arrive at agreement. Makingoutrageously unfair offers, raising the ante after making other concessions, declining tobargain at all, and publicly committing themselves to irrevocable positions are ways inwhich some negotiators might tie their own hands. (For instance, the officers of a unionmight announce to the rank and file that they will accept no offer below seventeendollars per hour, implying that they cannot possibly yield on this point and retain theirjobs as union leaders. Thus, management appears to be the only party with room tomake reasonable concessions.) Directly confronting these manipulations, refusing tocave in to pressure tactics, and insisting on principles are ways to cope with adversarieswho have tied their own hands.REFERENCEFisher, R., & Ury, W. (1981). Getting to yes: Negotiating agreement without giving in. New York: Penguin Books.18 ❘❚ ❚❘ EGO/BEHAVIOR DISTINCTIONDeveloped by Dr. Frank Jasinski and Walton C. Boshear, the ego/behavior distinctionconcept distinguishes between a person’s observed behavior and the inferences thatfrequently are made by observers about the person’s character or nature based on thebehavior.The ego, in this context, is composed of a person’s needs, attitudes, beliefs,opinions, feelings, and motives. The components of the ego constitute the inner self. Anobserver never fully can understand another person’s inner self because it is internal—known only to that person. Many ego functions cannot be shared with others becausethey are not easily expressed in words.Behavior, which can be observed, constitutes the outer self. Behavior is made up ofactions, gestures, physical habits, and mannerisms of speech and movement. The outerself generally is considered to be the physical manifestation of the inner self.Misunderstandings and other problems in communication usually are caused bypeople’s tendency to base their judgments of others on observed behavior alone and toassume that observed behavior accurately represents the inner self. For example, manyquiet people are perceived by others as conceited or aloof. The observed behavior (thefact that a person is quiet) is inferred by others to be indicative of conceit or aloofness (acondition of the inner self that may or may not be linked to a quiet nature). What peopleoften fail to consider is that people behave in different ways for different reasons. In theabove example, quietness may result from feelings of uncertainty in a particularsituation, from a lack of selfesteem, or simply from fatigue. Some behaviors actuallyreflect the opposite of a person’s inner self, the object being to mask one’s true feelings.These strategies—bearing, posture, and gestures—might be interpreted incorrectly byothers. For example, many people fail to realize that aggressive, “obnoxious” behaviormay be a mask for insecurity.It commonly is assumed that a particular kind of behavior has a cause that is thesame for all people under all circumstances. A more flexible approach would be toconsider each behavior as an element of a consistent pattern with which a personexpresses his or her ego or internal makeup. This approach requires a delay in drawingconclusions until more is known. If making an inference about a person’s ego isnecessary as a basis for one’s own actions, the inference should be recognized astentative. In this way, it can be tested within the context of one’s continued interactionswith the other person.Frequently in interpersonal relations, a person may consciously or unconsciouslyinterpret someone else’s behavior in terms of egobehavior characteristics. For example,in the statement “Michael is avoiding me; he must not like me,” the word “avoiding”represents an inference in itself. A more accurate observation might be “Michael hasn’t ❚❘ 19spoken to me since we were first introduced to each other.” This semantic strategyeliminates judgments and inferences about others’ actions. The judgment that Michael is“avoiding” in the first statement is based on an underlying hypothesis: “I wonder if hedislikes me?” And the hypothesis, in turn, may suggest an experiment such as, “I thinkI’ll walk over to his office and strike up a conversation with him.” This method, whichcould be thought of as the “don’tjumptoconclusions approach,” can enable people todiscover others’ actual ego/behavior relationships unclouded by their own behavioralpatterns and assumptions.USING THE DISTINCTION AS A STRATEGYThe ego/behavior distinction offers a functional strategy for minimizing interpersonalmisunderstandings and conflicts. It suggests that people can enhance their relationshipsby communicating information about their own ego functions and by giving othersnonjudgmental feedback about their behavior. The figure on the next page illustrates thisstrategy.People are said to be engaging in disclosure when they talk about aspects of theirinner selves that are not caused or affected by the behaviors of others. For example, “Isometimes worry about whether I’m a worthwhile person.” Other feelings are reactionsto what other people do and say. If we disclose these reactions to the person whosparked them, we are said to be giving feedback. For example: “When you walk bywithout saying ‘Hello,’ I feel hurt.”Feedback and disclosure are effective in developing and maintaining satisfactoryinterpersonal relationships. When an individual draws conclusions about anotherperson’s ego (e.g., “You don’t love me”), he or she is attributing ego characteristics thatmay be incorrect. Such accusations are seen as personal affronts to the ego, which mustbe defended. This is dysfunctional in a relationship. Fortunately, there are alternatives toaccusation and evaluation: information seeking and information giving.USES OF THE EGO/BEHAVIOR DISTINCTIONThe ego/behavior distinction can be useful in revealing some causes of conflict andcombativeness in interpersonal relations. It is not absolutely necessary that both personsin a dyadic relationship understand the concepts. If one person begins to implement thisstrategy for improving relations, he or she can see the results even if the other person isunaware of what is happening. Furthermore, although the strategy can be onesided, it isessentially nonmanipulative.In individual counseling, as well as in dyadic or group situations, the distinctionprovides a conceptual framework for getting to the source of the problem and an easytounderstand vocabulary for discussing actions for improvement.20 ❘❚ SourceBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.Ego/Behavior Distinction in Relationships22 ❘❚ ❚❘ GUIDELINES FOR GIVING FEEDBACKGiving feedback is a verbal or nonverbal process through which a person communicateshis or her perceptions and feelings about another person’s behavior. Most people giveand receive feedback daily without being aware that they are doing so. The process ofgiving and asking for feedback is one of the most important ways of learning newbehaviors and of assessing our impact on others. It is through feedback that we learn to“keep on course” and to see ourselves as others see us.The giving and receiving of meaningful feedback is an interpersonal exchange thatimplies the presence of certain key ingredients:■ Caring,■ Trusting,■ Acceptance,■ Openness, and■ Concern for the needs of others.Thus, the extent to which the feedback is evaluative, judgmental, and helpful maydepend on the personal philosophies of the parties involved. However, giving feedbackis a learned skill that can be developed through the use of the following nine guidelines.Desired change is more likely to occur if these guidelines are followed.1. Consider the needs of others. The primary reason for giving feedback should beto help oneself and others to grow. When growth is not the motivation, feedbackcan be destructive. For example, an angry person giving feedback may bemotivated not by a desire for personal growth and relationship enhancement butby the desire to hurt the person who made him or her angry. Feedback motivatedby selfserving interests is not feedback but selfgratification.2. Describe behavior only; do not attempt to interpret. Overt behavior is highlyobjective and observable. When one attributes a motive to another person’sbehavior, one is interpreting a person’s intentions. Because intentions are privateand are known to only the person who possesses them, the attribution of motivesand intention to behaviors and actions is highly subjective. In any event,interpreting or ascribing motives to a person’s behavior tends to put that personon the defensive and cause him or her to expend energy on explaining ordefending the behavior. Interpretation and speculation by others deprives theperson of the opportunity to interpret and understand his or her own behavior, atthe same time creating dependency on the interpreter. As a result, the feedback isnot likely to be used, regardless of how helpful it might have been. ❚❘ 233. Focus on behavior that can be changed. Effective feedback is aimed atbehavior that is relatively easy to change. Many people behave according tohabit; their personal styles have developed through years of responding in certainways. To receive feedback on personal habits can be frustrating because thesebehaviors can be very difficult to change. Feedback on behaviors that aredifficult to change often creates anxiety and selfconsciousness about thebehaviors.4. Be specific. When the feedback is specific, the person receiving the feedbackwill know which behavior is being discussed. For example, “You are a warmperson,” which is a very general statement, does not tell the person whichbehaviors contributed to the perception that he or she is warm.5. Wait for feedback to be solicited. When soliciting feedback, a person asks othersfor their perceptions and observations about his or her behavior. In reality, mostfeedback is imposed. People often give feedback whether it is solicited or notand whether or not the person is prepared to receive the feedback. Also, aperson’s desire to give feedback may be greater than the other person’s desire toreceive it. This is particularly true when the person giving the feedback is angryor upset about something concerning the potential recipient.In some situations, it is appropriate to impose feedback, particularly when anorm exists for giving as well as soliciting feedback or in order to induce a normof spontaneity. Nevertheless, feedback tends to be more helpful when it isrequested. A request for feedback usually indicates that the person is prepared tolisten and wants to know how others perceive his or her behavior.6. Be nonjudgmental. Feedback is not objective and is rarely as constructive if it isbased on personal interpretation. This type of evaluation often is perceived as apersonal attack. When giving feedback, one must respond not to a person’sperceived personality or likeability but to his or her actions. When people aretold that they are stupid or insensitive, for example, it is extremely difficult torespond calmly and objectively. A person sometimes may act unthinkingly orbehave in an insensitive way, but this is not proof of stupidity or insensitivity.Evaluation casts people in the roles of judge and defendant, often with disastrouseffects.7. Give feedback immediately after the behavior. When feedback is givenimmediately after the action, the event is fresh in both people’s minds. In thisway, feedback acts as a mirror of the person’s behavior. There often is atendency, however, to delay feedback. A person may fear losing emotionalcontrol, hurting another’s feelings, or being criticized.An exception to this guideline is the case of the regularly scheduled feedbacksession, the purpose of which is to keep communication channels open. In thesescheduled sessions, participants may discuss events that have taken place sincetheir last session or may work on issues generated during the meeting itself. For24 ❘❚ scheduled feedback sessions to be effective, the decision to hold them should bereached via participant consensus.8. Allow the freedom to change or not to change. A person should have thefreedom to use feedback in any meaningful way without being required tochange. A giver of feedback who tells a person to change is attempting to set thestandards for right and wrong or good and bad behavior and is judging the otherperson against these standards. Pressure to change can be very direct or verysubtle, thus creating a competitive, nowin relationship. Furthermore, imposingstandards on others by expecting them to change arouses resistance and evenresentment.9. Express feelings directly. People frequently assume that they are expressingtheir feelings when actually they are stating opinions and perceptions. Statementsthat begin with “I feel that . . . ” often finish with beliefs or opinions. Forexample, the statement, “I feel that you are driving too fast,” is an indirectexpression of feelings. The underlying statement of feelings in the aboveexample may be, “I am anxious because you are driving so fast,” or, “I amfrightened because you are driving fast.” Indirect expressions of feelings offer anescape from commitment and often prevent meaningful feedback.IMPLEMENTING THE GUIDELINES FOR FEEDBACKThe process of giving feedback sometimes can be inhibited if one attempts to considerall of the above guidelines simultaneously. Some guidelines take priority over others. Itis most important to remember that feedback should be descriptive, nonjudgmental,specific, and should offer freedom of choice. The above guidelines also can be useddiagnostically. For example, if a person receiving feedback reacts defensively, some ofthe guidelines probably have been violated by the giver.In summary, the ways in which people give feedback may be strongly influenced bytheir values and personal philosophies about themselves, about their relationships withothers, and about other people in general. Guidelines for giving feedback can be learnedand are valuable in helping people to give and receive effective and useful feedback.SOURCEHanson, P.G. (1975). Giving feedback: An interpersonal skill. In J.E. Jones & J.W. Pfeiffer (Eds.), The 1975annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 25Guidelines for Giving Feedback26 ❘❚ ❚❘ INFLUENCE STRATEGIES IN ORGANIZATIONSPeople in organizations engage in interaction and influence. We often limit our thinkingabout organizational influence to “leadership”—the influence of a manager over asubordinate—or perhaps to that and “politics,” which could include all other forms ofinfluence. However, throughout organizations, at all levels, across levels, up and down,people are trying to influence one another.SEVEN BASIC STRATEGIESThe KipnisSchmidt Profiles of Organizational Influence Strategies (POIS) weredeveloped through research to find out what means of influence people use inorganizations and which ones work best in certain situations. These studies, which arereported in Kipnis, Schmidt, and Wilkinson (1980), identify seven basic influencestrategies:■ Reason: influencing people by relying on data and information to support one’srequests. The influencer plans, prepares, and uses expertise rather than “shootingfrom the hip.” Facts and logical arguments are used to convince the “target”person. Reason is the most popular strategy used in organizations. The base ofpower here is the influencer’s own knowledge and ability to communicate thisinformation. Reason is used even more to influence bosses than to influencecoworkers or subordinates. Whenever possible, however, reason is the firstchoice of influence strategy.■ Friendliness: influencing someone by causing that person to think well of theinfluencer. A number of tactics can be used to accomplish this, such as “actingfriendly” and “sensing” the other person’s mood before making a request. Thisstrategy seeks to create a favorable impression of the influencer so that the targetperson will be more inclined to do what the influencer wants. A person’s use ofthis influence strategy is based on the person’s own personality, interpersonalskills, and sensitivity to the moods and attitudes of others. Friendliness is usedmore with subordinates and coworkers than it is with supervisors, but, overall, isused almost as widely as reason.■ Coalition: mobilizing other people in the organization to assist the influencer.The influencer operates on the premise that there is “power in numbers.” Theinfluencer’s power in using this strategy is based on his or her alliances withcoworkers and others in the organization. Coalition is a complex strategy thatrequires substantial skill and effort. It is, however, a widely used one, although itis used less with subordinates than with coworkers or supervisors. ❚❘ 27■ Bargaining: influencing others through negotiation and the exchange of benefitsor favors. The tactics used are based on the social norms of obligation andreciprocity. The influencer reminds the target person of past favors that he or shehas done and/or offers to make additional concessions in order to get what he orshe wants. In short, the influencer relies on a trade. What the influencer has totrade is derived from two sources: the influencer’s own time, effort, and skill orthe organizational resources that the influencer controls. Bargaining is common,but is used less with supervisors than with coworkers or subordinates.■ Assertiveness: influencing people by one’s forceful manner. It involves the use ofdemands, the setting of deadlines, and the expression of strong emotions.Assertiveness gives the impression that the influencer is “in charge” and expectscompliance with his or her wishes. At times, visible emotion and displays oftemper accompany this strategy. Assertiveness is most often used withsubordinates; it is used less with coworkers or supervisors.■ Appeal to Higher Authority: relying on the chain of command to createinfluence. The influencer uses people higher up in the organization who havepower over the target person. Other people and outside power are used toinfluence the target person indirectly. There are two ways in which this strategyis used: by formally appealing to the chain of command or by informally askinghigher management to deal with the influencer’s request or to speak to the targetperson on the influencer’s behalf. This strategy is not widely used and is used lesswith supervisors than with coworkers or subordinates. Perhaps the risk of “goingover the boss’s head” causes people to avoid using this strategy with theirmanagers.■ Sanctions: using rewards or punishments to influence others. The use of sanctionmay involve either a desirable gain or an undesirable consequence. The use ofsanctions is a classic approach to influencing people and may seem to be the mostobvious influence strategy. However, its use clearly depends on the influencer’saccess to rewards or punishments and on his or her ability to actually deliverthem. Even so, this is one of the least used strategies, and it is used only withsubordinates.By understanding his or her own pattern of use of the seven strategies, a person canidentify and correct problems in attempts to influence others. Examples of suchproblems would be using a particular tactic with inappropriate targets or overusing oneor two strategies rather than selecting appropriately from the available range.THE POIS PROFILESEach of the POIS instruments generates two profiles for the seven strategies. The firstone shows the respondents’ typical use of each of the seven strategies. The secondprofile shows what they do when their first attempt to influence someone is resisted. For28 ❘❚ both, the highest scores indicate those strategies that they are most likely to use. Theprofiles also tell respondents how they use the strategies compared to others whopreviously completed the POIS.The instructions for the POIS permit respondents to chart or graph their scores interms of high, average, and low ranges. Most people want to know what their profilesmean: are they “good” or “bad”? However, the POIS is not designed to yield valuejudgments about respondents’ personalities. Instead, the POIS profiles allowrespondents to compare their scores to norms for four major types of influencerbehaviors:■ Bystander. Individuals with Bystander profiles have low scores on mostinfluence strategies. Such individuals apparently do not exercise influence in theirorganizations.■ Captive. Individuals with Captive profiles have high scores on only one or twoinfluence strategies. They tend to be limited in their choice of influence. That is,regardless of what they want, they use the same one or two influence strategies.■ Tactician. Individuals with Tactician profiles have average to high scores onthree or four influence strategies. They are versatile in their approaches to the useof influence.■ Shotgun. Individuals with Shotgun profiles have high scores on most influencestrategies. These individuals use a wide range of strategies in order to persuadeothers. However, they may not be as successful as they wish, because they arestriking out blindly, regardless of the appropriateness of their strategies.Obviously, the Tactician profile seems to have the best chances for success, becausethere is a need to vary one’s influence strategies, to choose a strategy on the basis ofwhich one is most likely to yield positive results. The basis for analyzing situations andmaking appropriate choices can be found in strategic influence theory.STRATEGIC INFLUENCE THEORYThe goal of Kipnis and Schmidt’s theory is to help people to understand how they useinfluence in their organizations. In particular, this theory provides information about thereasons for one’s past choices of influence strategies and presents guidelines to helppeople to broaden the range of strategies that they use to influence other people in theirorganizations.Strategic influence theory is based on an analysis of the personal and situational“TRAPs” that often lock people into using ineffective influence strategies. Once thesetraps are recognized, people can learn to expand their repertoires of influence strategies.Obviously, being able to use a wide range of influence strategies can enhance a person’sability to get things done.The theory describes four traps that research has found to be related to the use ofthe seven influence strategies. The four traps are: ❚❘ 291. Target of influence (target person),2. Resources available to or possessed by the influencer,3. Adverse reactions of the target person, and4. Purpose of the use of influence.TargetPeople frequently vary their influence strategies depending on whether they seek toinfluence their bosses, coworkers, or subordinates. Many people apparently believe thatthey always should use a particular strategy with a particular target of influence. Forexample, a common stereotype is that people should use friendliness with theirsupervisors and assertiveness with their subordinates. The trap is that this stereotypelimits the influencer in terms of flexibility in “tailoring” the influence strategy to fitdifferent people in different circumstances. All influence strategies have the potential tobe used effectively in the appropriate circumstances. When some strategies are neverused, the influencer not only is situationally inflexible but also may be limited to usingonly two or three of the seven strategies.ResourcesIt is well recognized that people’s resources guide their choice of influence strategy. Forexample, people who believe that they possess no resources that are valued by othersmay hesitate to attempt to influence others. Resources can be based on organizationalposition or on personal characteristics. Examples of organizational resources includecontrol of budgetary matters, control of information, and the extent to which the work isconsidered important by the organization. Examples of personal resources includeexpertise, selfconfidence, and personal manner.Many people fall into the trap of not recognizing the full range of resources thatthey control. As a result, they hesitate to exercise influence or they select ineffectivestrategies. For example, people who do not recognize the importance of their personalresources, such as their expert knowledge, may feel that they have no “clout.” As aresult, these people may remain passive and feel helpless when called on to directothers. Because they do not take their personal resources into account, they may notthink that they can use strategies such as reason, bargaining, and coalition.Adverse ReactionsAdverse reactions refer to situations in which the target people resist doing whatpotential influencers request. There are several subtraps that people fall into when suchresistance is encountered. Some simply give up when faced with refusals. Others rigidlypersist in using an initially ineffective influence strategy. Still others escalateprematurely and use sanctions or strong assertive demands to overcome the resistance oftarget people. These strategies often are inappropriate in the early stages of resistance30 ❘❚ and, hence, are ineffective. For example, if a person is using the initial strategy offriendliness in trying to persuade a supervisor, when faced with refusal, this personshould consider other strategies. For instance, a more appropriate strategy may be theuse of coalition or reason.Effective influencers are flexible. They recognize that strategic choices can be madeto overcome resistance. These strategic choices generally have been found to begin withthe use of reason and simple requests. Only after resistance is encountered do effectiveinfluencers select other strategies. These new strategies then apply just enough pressureto overcome the resistance of target people.PurposeThe purpose for exercising influence usually is to influence others organizationally or topromote one’s own selfinterests. Examples of organizationally motivated reasons are adesire to “sell” others on the worth of a new organizational program or an attempt toensure that others do their work properly. In these instances, the person has the interestsof the organization in mind when attempting to influence others. Personally motivatedreasons for exercising influence include seeking to obtain an increase in salary, betterwork assignments, time off, or a promotion. The trap here is that the person may use thesame strategy for each, regardless of what is wanted from the target person, rather thanchoosing the strategy that is most appropriate for obtaining what is wanted. Forexample, if a person’s goal is to influence a manager to promote a new and better systemof work, reason may be the most effective strategy. Effective influencers, then, take intoaccount who they are trying to influence (the target), their resources (both personal andorganizational), how to react to resistance, and their own reasons for exercisinginfluence.SELECTING SPECIFIC STRATEGIESSituational influence theory provides a framework for examining situations and helps aperson to identify the key aspects of a specific situation. In itself, it does not prescribewhich influence strategy to use in a specific situation or even in a certain type ofsituation. However, from the original research that was done to develop the POIS, someguidelines have been derived regarding which strategies seem to succeed in certain typesof situations with certain types of targets.Reason. Reason is used most frequently in selling ideas. If their jobs requireexpertise, influencers most likely will find this strategy to be advantageous andeffective. Its use is associated with acceptance of objectives. One possible problem inusing this strategy could be a failure to develop ideas adequately and to organizeinformation logically. The use of reason requires preparation time, thought, andcommunication skills. ❚❘ 31Friendliness. Influencers are most likely to use the strategy of friendliness whenthey want personal favors, when they want assistance with their work, and when theirpower base is weak but they must convince the target people of their courses of action.Overuse of this strategy could lead the other people to suspect their motives and theirwork competence.Coalition. Coalitions frequently are used for both personal and organizationalreasons. The strategy of coalition can be used to obtain personal benefits and assistanceon the job. The strategy also is useful in selling ideas to others. This can be a powerfulstrategy but it is not without danger. Overuse of coalition could create the impressionthat an influencer is conspiring against the target person.Bargaining. Bargaining involves making concessions in exchange for getting whatis wanted. This strategy is used most frequently when the influencer seeks personalbenefits. A drawback of this strategy is that it creates obligations that the influencermust fulfill in the future. What is traded might not be worth what is received inexchange.Assertiveness. Assertiveness is a twoedged sword. It is used when influencersknow that they are right and wish to improve organizational effectiveness. When usedeffectively, assertiveness may overcome the resistance of target people. However, whenused ineffectively, it can create ill will. This strategy often is used as a backup strategywhen target people are resistant. Assertiveness can be used in combination with otherinfluence strategies such as reason. It frequently is used when duty requires that theinfluencer convince someone of a course of action.Higher Authority. Higher authority is a backup strategy to be used wheninfluencers know from experience that the target persons will not agree to their requests.This strategy is used for many different reasons. The problem that results from frequentreliance on this strategy is that it could undermine relationships with target people.Sanctions. Sanctions are used almost exclusively with subordinates, who expectthat their boss has the authority and the right to provide rewards and punishments.Sanctions must be used with great care, because a failure to follow through will lead to aloss of credibility and, hence, a loss of ability to influence.When influencers clearly can define the targets, their own resources, the possibleadverse reactions of the targets, and their purposes in making the attempts, they canreview the range of strategies defined above and decide which are most likely to beeffective in a particular situation. This is quite a contrast to being “trapped” in one of thelimited profiles—the Bystander or the Captive.REFERENCEKipnis, D., Schmidt, S.M., & Wilkinson, I. (1980). Intraorganizational influence tactics: Explorations in gettingone’s way. Journal of Applied Psychology, 65, 440452.32 ❘❚ SOURCEKipnis, D., & Schmidt, S.M. (1982). Respondent’s guide to the KipnisSchmidt profiles of organizational influencestrategies (POIS). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 33Strategies Traps BehaviorReasonFriendlinessCoalitionBargainingAssertivenessHigher AuthoritySanctionsTarget PersonResourcesAdverse ReactionsPurposeBystanderCaptiveTacticianShotgunBasic Aspects of the KipnisSchmidt Theory34 ❘❚ ❚❘ INTERPERSONAL COMPETENCEHuman relationships are vital to effective organizational functioning. Formalorganizational structure, restrictive managerial controls, excessive direction fromleaders, and the like often result in the reduction of human effectiveness. Argyris (1962)argues that the interpersonal relationships between people within an organizationsignificantly affect the overall competence of an organization to achieve optimaleffectiveness. Argyris says that organizational competence incorporates at least twoidentifiable and interrelated components: the first has to do with ideas and things and theother with relationships between people. Argyris calls the first component intellectivecompetency. Intellective competency refers to the things that organizations do and oftenis assessed by measures of how well an organization accomplishes its goals (i.e., profitand loss, budget variance, product quality, inventory turnover). The second componentis interpersonal competency. It refers to the authenticity of interpersonal relationshipsbetween people. Organizations must be both interpersonally and intellectivelycompetent in order to be maximally effective.THEORETICAL FOUNDATIONArgyris believes that in an effort to increase employee effectiveness, many organizationssoon will become less concerned with keeping employees happy and highly satisfiedthrough rational intellective means and will move toward developing employees who areselfresponsible, committed, and enjoy high selfworth. Selfworth (acceptance), selfresponsibility, and commitment are all outcomes of increased interpersonal competence.Argyris frames his thoughts regarding the etiology of interpersonal competence in aseries of propositions that outline his basic theoretical orientation.1. The first proposition asserts that human behavior is not random. The behavior ofhuman beings is orderly and governed by an assortment of laws unified withinthe person. Unity for Argyis is analogous to the “self.” The “self” is composed ofthe aggregate of the person’s “needs, values, abilities, and defenses integratedinto an organized whole that has meaning for the individual.” The self is not a“thing” that can be seen by those who are not competent in basic psychologicaltheory, those who are not open and receptive to others, or those who are highlydefensive. Such types tend to see only surface behaviors, which usually appearrandom.2. Researchers differ in their perceptions of human personality and often attachdifferent labels (i.e., self, ego, persona) to describe the phenomenon. There is ❚❘ 35however, substantial agreement that an integrated unity develops within people.The unification occurs as an outcome of interpersonal relationships.3. Interpersonal relationships with parents and other members of the family oforigin have the greatest effect on the initial development of the self. Later,extended relationships with friends, relatives, schoolmates, coworkers, andsignificant others tend to influence the development of the self. Healthyinterpersonal relationships within the nuclear family unit help the individual todevelop a sense of self that he or she can employ effectively to deal with familyand other relationships.4. As an individual develops, the self begins to operate as a filtering mechanismthrough which itself and the surrounding world are comprehended and evaluated.Information that is congruent with selfconcepts is readily accepted andprocessed. Incongruent information is filtered (distorted) before being processedor is rejected altogether. This phenomenon is called defensiveness.Defensiveness is a response to some real or perceived threat to the self.Defensive behavior can be minimized by the use of nonevaluative feedback.Nonevaluative feedback is the act of describing behavior without attaching avalue judgement. Argyris argues that proficient nonevaluative feedback requiresacceptance of one’s own self and the selves of others. Nonevaluative feedbackcannot be acquired by practice, but can be learned only by the development of acentral philosophy and set of values that emphasize individual growth.5. The fifth proposition is that a person will be aware of behavior that does notthreaten the sense of self. Awareness is the willingness and ability to perceiveone’s own or another’s behavior. Acceptance is perceiving one’s own oranother’s behavior as it was intended. Acceptance does not necessarily meanliking the behavior. Acceptance is associated with awareness in that behaviorthat is perceived as threatening will not be noticed. If one is not aware of aparticular behavior, it cannot be accepted.6. A fundamental need of human beings is to increase their willingness and abilityto accept themselves and others. Deficiencies in the ability to accept oneself andothers is followed by increased defensiveness, which impairs one’s ability togive and receive meaningful feedback.7. Awareness and acceptance of self and others are highly related. One cannotbecome more aware and accepting of oneself without becoming more aware andaccepting of others. Argyris’s example assumes that person “A” wants to boostselfacceptance. Person A’s self has a filter mechanism that regulates thefeedback given or received, so the more defensive person A becomes, the morefeedback will be filtered and the less likelihood there will be of establishing anenvironment suitable for giving and receiving meaningful feedback. Similarly,the more defensive person B becomes, the more his or her feedback to person Awill be filtered (distorted).36 ❘❚ The implications are apparent. Person A will not understand feedback fromperson B unless there is a willingness and ability to understand, and unlessperson B is willing and able to help person A to understand. Person B will not bewilling or able unless person A helps to establish an environment in whichperson B will not be defensive.8. The interpersonal development of people is determined by relationships withothers. In other words, it is not possible to grow interpersonally or to increaseselfacceptance or selfawareness without establishing an environment for othersto grow also.9. A primary need of human beings is to be successful in their interpersonalencounters with others. Argyris defines interpersonal success as “the tendency tobecome more aware and accepting of themselves and of others.” The increasedawareness of self and others is the basis of psychological unity.10. Increased awareness of self and others are the foundations of psychologicalgrowth that lead to authentic relationships. Authentic relationships arerelationships in which an individual enhances his or her sense of self and otherawareness and acceptance in such a way that others can do the same. Argyrisobserves that authenticity is not a state that one can internalize alone.Authenticity depends on one’s relationships with others and on one’s ability tocreate conditions in which others also can be authentic.The desire to increase acceptance of self and others is intimately linked with thedevelopment of interpersonal competence, and interpersonal competence is intimatelylinked with authenticity: authentic relationships increase with increases in the ability togive and receive nonevaluative feedback; increased nonevaluative feedback increasesthe ownership of ideas, values, and emotions; increased ownership increases opennessand receptivity to new and different ideas, values, and emotions; and so on.IMPLICATIONS FOR ORGANIZATIONSOrganizations are purposeful and exist to accomplish goals. In being purposeful,organizations are assumed to be rational entities with rules, expectations, and objectivesthat focus primarily on results (intellective competence). The underlying value system inmany organizations characteristically emphasizes goal attainment and assumes thatincreases in the authenticity and interpersonal closeness of employees will result indecreases in productivity and effectiveness. Implicit in this value system areassumptions that human relationships are most effectively managed through direction,intimidation, punishment, and rewards. Consequently, conditions to encourageinterpersonal competence are nonexistent. Acceptance of self and others becomesconditional on conforming to organizational expectations; commitment becomesexternal to the self; dependency develops; and interpersonal mistrust is the norm. ❚❘ 37As interpersonal mistrust increases, the capacity to cope with interpersonal mistrustalso increases, and people begin to decrease their openness and receptivity to new ideas.Employees “play it safe” and become guarded in their relations with themselves andothers. Willingness to experiment with new ideas decreases, causing increases in “firefighting” and crisis management. As crisis management increases, employeedefensiveness also increases, leading to an increased focus on and protection of self.These relationships are cyclical and escalate if dysfunctional patterns are not interrupted.Argyris says that the dysfunctional patterns can be broken only by creating theconditions that lead to authentic relationships and interpersonal competence.REFERENCEArgyris, C. (1962). Interpersonal competence and organizational effectiveness. Homewood, IL: Richard D. Irwin.NonevaluativeFeedback,CongruentInformationEvaluativeFeedback,IncongruentInformationAwarenessof Selfand OtherDefensivenessSelfFilters ❚❘ 39❚❘ THE JOHARI WINDOWJoseph Luft and Harry Ingham developed the Johari (Joe and Harry) window model fora program in group process. It has become famous in the human resource developmentfield as a communication and feedback model to depict how we give and receiveinformation about ourselves and others.The model depicts a fourpaned window (see figure). Looking at the four panes interms of columns and rows, the two columns represent the self; the first contains “thingsI know about myself,” and the second contains “things I do not know about myself.”The rows represent the group one is in or others, the first row being “things they knowabout me,” and the second being “things they do not know about me.”The size of (i.e., the information contained in) each of these panes varies as thelevel of mutual trust and exchange of feedback varies in the group in which the person isinteracting.The Arena contains information that I know about myself and about which thegroup knows. It is an area characterized by free and open exchange of informationbetween myself and others. The Arena increases in size as the level of individualindividual or individualgroup trust and communication increases.The Blind Spot is the information known about me by others, but which I do notknow about myself. This information may be in the form of body language, habits ormannerisms, tone of voice, style, etc. Our Blind Spots are the things we are not aware The Johari Window from Group Processes: An Introduction to Group Dynamics by Joseph Luft by permission of Mayfield PublishingCompany. Copyright © 1984, 1970, and 1963 by Joseph Luft.40 ❘❚ that we are communicating to others. It frequently is surprising to learn about thesethings and to learn how many of them there are. For persons with large Blind Spots,learning to solicit feedback can be quite useful and enlightening.The Facade is the area of information that I know about myself but which, forsome reason, I withhold from others. This information may include feelings, opinions,prejudices, and past history. People have various motives for keeping secrets: some mayfear rejection or ridicule; others may withhold information in order to manipulate others.The Unknown contains things that neither I nor others know about me. Some ofthis material may be so far below the surface that I may never become aware of it. Othermaterial, however, may be below the surface of awareness to both me and others but canbe made public through an exchange of feedback. This information may includechildhood memories, unrealized potential, and so on. Because knowing oneselfcompletely is extremely unlikely, the Unknown in the Johari Window model is extendedso that part of it always will remain unknown. In Freudian terms, this is the“unconscious.”TRAINING IMPLICATIONS OF THE MODELThe boundaries of the panes are flexible, that is, one can enlarge or reduce a column orrow by increasing or decreasing the amount of feedback one gives and receives. Muchof the purpose of training with this model is to reduce the Blind Spot, to develop areceptive attitude, and to encourage others in the group to give me feedback. One needsto learn to solicit feedback from others in such a way that they will feel comfortable ingiving it. The more this is accomplished, the more the vertical line will move to theright.Another goal of training is to reduce the Facade (move the horizontal line down).One can do this by providing information to others about one’s reactions to what isgoing on in the group and inside oneself. ❚❘ 41Ratios of PanesWhen one reduces one’s Blind Spot and Facade through the process of giving andsoliciting feedback, one increases the size of the Arena. In general, this is desirable.However, one may give more feedback than one asks for or ask for more than one gives.This imbalance can affect one’s relationships with others. The size and shape of theArena, therefore, also is a function of the ratio of giving versus soliciting feedback.The following illustrations depict ideal and extreme ratios in terms of giving andsoliciting feedback.AAAAFFFFBSBSBSBSUUUUIdeal Window Interviewer BullinChinaShop Turtle123 41. Ideal Window. In any significant relationship, a window with a large Arena andsmall Blind Spot, Facade, and Unknown is best (illustration 1). A person of thisdescription would be relatively easy for others to interact with and understand,making for better and more honest relationships. In general, the size of the Arenaincreases as the level of trust in the group increases and norms are developed thatfacilitate giving and receiving feedback.2. Interviewer. Illustration 2 depicts a person who is comfortable asking questionsof others (soliciting feedback) but does not like to reveal personal information orprovide feedback—hence, the large Facade and small Arena. Such individualsare comfortable with a high groupparticipation level, but not when the group’sattention is focused on themselves. Because such persons do not committhemselves in the group, it is hard to know where they stand on issues. Others42 ❘❚ eventually may react to this type of person with irritation, distrust, andwithholding.3. BullinaChinaShop. A person who has a large Blind Spot is depicted inillustration three. The opposite of the interviewer, people with this profile give agreat deal of feedback but solicit very little. Their participation style is tocomment on what is going on in the group, including group issues and thebehavior of other members. Unfortunately, such persons either tend to be poorlisteners (thus, “insensitive” to the impact of their behavior on others or whatothers are trying to tell them) or they may respond to feedback in such a way(e.g., with anger, tears, by threatening to leave) that others are reluctant tocontinue to give it. This type may be perceived by others as insensitive,opinionated, and critical. Because they are unaware of the impact of theirbehavior on others, such individuals do not know what behaviors to change.4. Turtle. Illustration 4 depicts an individual with a large Unknown. This type ofperson tends to be the silent member or “observer,” neither giving nor solicitingfeedback. It is difficult for group members to know where this person stands inthe group or where they stand with him or her. When confronted about such lackof participation, this person may respond with, “I learn more by listening.”Actually, however, such persons learn very little about themselves because theydo not provide the group with any data to which it can react. It takes aconsiderable amount of energy to maintain an Arena this small in a groupsituation because of the pressure that group norms exert against this kind ofbehavior. The energy needed to maintain a closed system is not available forselfexploration and personal growth.CONCLUSIONThe goal of learning to give and solicit feedback is to move information from the BlindSpot and the Facade into the Arena. Through this process, new information also canmove from the Unknown into the Arena. This frequently is called “insight” or“inspiration.” Using the Johari Window model helps people to provide a framework inwhich people can practice giving and receiving feedback. The overall goal is that theyalso learn to be more accepting of themselves and others.REFERENCELuft, J. (1970). Group processes: An introduction to group dynamics. Mountain View, CA: Mayfield.SOURCEHanson, P.G. (1973). The Johari window: A model for soliciting and giving feedback. In J.E. Jones & J.W. Pfeiffer(Eds.), The 1973 annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 43 The Johari Window from Group Processes: An Introduction to Group Dynamics by Joseph Luft by permission of Mayfield PublishingCompany. Copyright © 1984, 1970, and 1963 by Joseph Luft.44 ❘❚ ❚❘ MULTICHANNEL COMMUNICATIONKarl Albrecht presented the concept of multichannel communication to explain theblocks in communication that result when feelings, values, and opinions are confusedwith facts. Albrecht suggested that transactions between two people take place throughfour separate communication channels that transmit facts, feelings, values, and opinions(see the figure on page 52). Albrecht (1977) offered the following definitions:■ Facts: Objectively verifiable aspects of experience; inferences, conjectures, orassumptions that are believed to be true; information or data having no particularemotional connotation.■ Feelings: Emotional responses to experience; hereandnow reactions thatinfluence the transaction.■ Values: Ideals; behavioral standards based on one’s sense of propriety; relativelypermanent ideas about what should be; experiences, people, concepts, orinstitutions that one holds dear.■ Opinions: A belief or judgment that falls short of certainty and is oriented to theimmediate situation; shortrange ideas about what is happening, how others arebehaving, and what is being said or proposed; attitudes associated with a decisivestand or position that one has adopted.All the above kinds of information are exchanged to some degree in any dyadicinteraction. Usually, one kind of information is predominant, but every kind ofinformation is present to some extent. For example, in a typical business discussion,facts predominate. Feelings are involved to the extent that the people accept each other,consider each other to be competent and cooperative, and enjoy working with eachother. Values come into play throughout the transaction (“This project is worthwhile”).Each person has opinions that affect the decision issues (“I don’t like this format for thereport”), but their opinions continually shift in response to new information,reevaluation of facts, and the influences in their relationship.MIXED CHANNELS OF COMMUNICATIONThe concept of multichannel communication is helpful when dealing with situations inwhich the four channels are inadvertently “mixed.” Perhaps the most frequently mixedchannels of communication are facts and opinions. For example, a person might say,“That’s a stupid idea. It will never work.” The language of the statement implies that thestupidity of the idea is a verifiable fact. In reality, however, the person probably means, ❚❘ 45“I don’t like the idea. I disagree with the approach, and I believe that it is unlikely towork.”People often mix facts and opinions believing that others will realize that they arestating only their opinions. But unfortunately, the listener may not “hear” what was notsaid. The listener may react at the feeling level with a statement such as, “You don’teven understand the idea. You are not qualified to pass judgment on it.” Again, thestatement seems to be factual, but it is laden with anger and frustration—strong feelingsthat are not being acknowledged. Of course, the participants’ immediate reactions willheavily influence the course of the transaction. This may lead to further argument,exchanges of values and feelings that are expressed as facts, and increased hostility.A fundamental principle of multichannel communication is that unrecognizedmessages that convey values, feelings, or opinions under the guise of facts exert subtlepressures on the listener. They may be pressures to agree, to conform, to capitulate, or todefend oneself against others’ aggressive feelings. It follows that an awareness of thesechannels and the ability to separate them can produce greater empathy, understanding,and consideration on both sides of the transaction.This concept implies that people are incapable of listening objectively. Instead,people see and hear through a filter made up of their own values, feelings, attitudes, andreaction patterns. It is difficult for a receiver to accept the message; separate facts fromvalues, feelings, and opinions; and react only to the facts. A sender who expects thereceiver to do all these things is likely to be disappointed.OVERCOMING COMMUNICATION BLOCKSThe first steps toward overcoming a communication block are to become aware of thefour channels, to differentiate them, and to call attention to the confusion between them.This procedure often is referred to as making a process statement. For example, a personmight say, “George, you seem to be upset. Let’s talk about that before we go anyfurther. I want us to reach an agreement without hard feelings.” This statement shouldbring George’s feelings into the proper channel of communication. After beingacknowledged in the conversation as legitimate feelings, they can be dealt with in such away that George can return to the “factual” channel to complete the transaction.Certain phrases, such as “to me,” “up to a point,” “as far as I know,” “in myopinion,” and “I feel” can be spectacularly effective in removing communication blocks.Such phrases call attention to the four channels of communication and separate them sothat they can be dealt with individually.An awareness of multichannel communication also focuses attention on bodylanguage (gestures, mannerisms, posture, and so on) as a way of increasingunderstanding. Although verbal communication often is unreliable for conveying truefeelings and attitudes, nonverbal communication is reliable if correctly interpreted.In Western culture, denial of feelings and attitudes is so customary that manypeople automatically resort to rationalizing, intellectualizing, and diverting attention in46 ❘❚ order to conceal their feelings. Common statements heard in heated discussions are“Now, let’s not get personal,” or “Let’s stick to business and not let this get out ofhand.” Body language can be extremely valuable in detecting inconsistencies betweenfacts and feelings. For example, a verbal message may be, “Gee, Fred, I’m really gladyou came in to discuss this matter with me.” But if the person is simultaneouslyglancing at the clock and standing by the door, then he or she is making quite anotherstatement nonverbally.SOURCEBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company. ❚❘ 47FACTSFEELINGSVALUESOPINIONSPERSON A PERSON BMultichannel Communication48 ❘❚ ❚❘ OPEN AND CLOSED RELATIONSHIPSThe open/closed relationships model, developed by William Barber, places open andclosed relationships on opposite extremes of a continuum. The degree of openness orclosedness in a relationship is determined by the ways in which the two people handlefour elements: (a) the topic of conversation, (b) the time frame of the topic, (c) feelings,and (d) personal information. The figure on page 49 illustrates these basic concepts.A CLOSED RELATIONSHIPA closed relationship, as shown in the illustration, can be characterized as a verysuperficial relationship. Neither of the parties is especially involved or interested in theconversation. Most of the discussions in a closed relationship concern events thathappened a long time ago or may happen in the distant future—or not at all. Bothpersons avoid revealing their feelings. If any feelings are shown, both people are likelyto become even more distant to avoid becoming personally involved. If personal topicsare approached at all, they are likely to be abstracted and generalized to the point thatneither participant “owns” them.AN OPEN RELATIONSHIPAt the other end of the continuum, the open relationship is much more direct, varied,and expressive. The topic of discussion frequently is the relationship itself—what it isand how it is progressing. Immediate experiences are shared as they are experienced,and feelings are an accepted subject of discussion. The sharing of feelings is seen as anaid to communication and understanding. The parties become personally involved witheach other and share private information, thoughts, feelings, and attitudes.By placing open and closed relationships on opposite ends of a continuum, theillustration suggests that movement from one end to the other need not be revolutionarybut can be evolutionary. By gradually changing the four elements of the relationship, theparties can move toward a more open relationship as they learn to take personal risks ata mutually acceptable rate. They also have the entire spectrum of relationships availableto them. They are not forced to make either/or choices; rather, they can move freelyalong the continuum as appropriate to their purposes and circumstances.SOURCESBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.Building open and closed relationships. (1973). In J.E. Jones & J.W. Pfeiffer (Eds.), The 1973 annual handbookfor group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Open/Closed RelationshipsCLOSED OPENOfconcerntoneitherOfconcerntooneOfconcerntobothTherelationshipNone DistantpastorfutureRecentpastorfutureNowExcluded, DetractiveAbstractions, GeneralizationsIncluded, RelevantReal, Private, PersonalTOPICTIME FRAMEFEELINGSPERSONAL50 ❘❚ ❚❘ PROXEMIC ZONES: THE IMPLICATIONS OFINTERACTION DISTANCEIt seems that everyone in an elevator looks at the numbers on the panel, not at oneanother. In close proximity, if people cannot move, they reduce eye contact. On acommonsense level, we know that this is one of the ways in which people protect theirpersonal space.Anthropologist Edward T. Hall coined the term proxemics for the systematic studyof the causes and effects of personalspace requirements. Interaction distance, which isone important attribute of personal space, is defined by Darwyn E. Linder, a psychologyprofessor at Arizona State University, as “. . . the straightline distance between twoparties to a social interaction” (1974, p. 1). Hall (1969) theorizes that interactiondistance has profound meanings and consequences in interpersonal relations. In thisregard, we are similar to other animals. The distances that humans and nonhumananimals maintain from members of their own species generally tell us a great deal aboutstatus, relationships, and probable conduct. The dynamics of interaction distance haveprofound implications for communication and behavior in organizations.INTERACTION DISTANCESThe Swiss animal psychologist H. Hediger (1950, 1955, 1961) believes that the mannerin which animals divide their territories serves both communicative and survivalfunctions. Hediger attempts to classify interaction distances in nonhuman species. Hedefines flight distance as the point at which an animal flees from a potential predator,critical distance as the zone between flight distance and the distance at which a corneredanimal will fight to defend its territory, social distance as the average spacingmaintained in groupings of the species, and individual distance as the boundary withinwhich “noncontact” species will take action to eject an intruder.Building on Hediger’s work, Hall (1959, 1969) speculates that humans exhibitsome of the same conventions regarding space that had been observed in other animals.Hall notes that Hediger’s flight and critical distances were relatively less importantdeterminants of human territoriality, but that social and individual distances play a majorrole in the organization of human interactions.In The Silent Language (1959), Hall classifies eight human interaction distances,which he subsequently simplifies to “close” and “far” phases of four distances. In hisclassification scheme, the degree of expressed or desired intimacy is inversely related tothe physical distance between people. That is, the more intimacy that is desired, the lessdistance is desired; the less intimacy that is desired, the more space is desired.Thus, the theory of proxemic zones delineates the social significance of the spacesurrounding a person’s body. Each person perceptually structures his or her own spatial ❚❘ 51field into several zones of varying intensities. The presence of another individual withinone of these zones has certain effects on the attitudes and actions of the “owner” of theterritory.The figure illustrates the four principal proxemic zones.Proxemic ZonesINTIMATE ZONEThe range of the intimate zone is defined by one’s culture. In Western culture,particularly for middleclass Americans, the intimate zone typically extends six totwelve inches outward from the body, perhaps as much as eighteen inches. It usually isreserved for personal friendships or sexual intimacy. The owner of the territory mayreact to an unauthorized intrusion into this zone with defensive feelings, avoidancebehavior, and, sometimes, even with hostility.PERSONAL ZONEFor Americans, the personal zone extends outward from the edge of the intimate zone toabout an arm’s length, approximately thirtysix inches beyond the intimate zone, or fromtwelve to fortyeight inches beyond the body. This probably explains the Americanfigure of speech “keeping him at arm’s length.” In some cultures, notablyMediterranean, the personal zone is smaller than this. For a Greek or an Italian, a friendstanding at a distance of an arm’s length would seem too distant for comfortableinteraction. Entrance into an individual’s personal zone usually is by invitation only.52 ❘❚ SOCIAL ZONEFrom the edge of the personal zone, an individual’s social zone extends outward to adistance determined by his or her environment. In American culture, the social zonetends to extend eight to twenty feet beyond the body. In a quiet office, the social zonemight extend four to twelve feet beyond the personal zone. In a noisy or crowdedsituation, the social zone might be as short as six to eight feet beyond the personal zone.When a person becomes aware of another individual within the social zone, he or shegenerally feels inclined to interact with that person in some way.PUBLIC ZONEThe public zone extends indefinitely outward from the edge of the individual’s socialzone. People within a person’s public zone usually do not exert significant influence onthe person’s nonverbal behavior. They are perceived as undifferentiated aspects of theenvironment, usually requiring no special attention from the individual.The following table describes the close and far phases of Hall’s four distances:Distance Close Phase Distant PhaseIntimate Contact  6 inches.Amorous and physically aggressivebehaviors occur at this distance.6  18 inches.Touching and hushed or whisperedcommunications occur at thisdistance.Personal 18  30 inches.Personal companions, spouses, orthose communicating at a crowdedsocial event assume this distance.30  48 inches.Informal discourses betweenacquaintances and companions occurat this distance.Social 4  7 feet.Informal, impersonal businessinteractions occur at this distance.7  12 feet.Formal business (e.g., interviews ornegotiations) is transacted at thisdistance.Public 12  25 feet.Speeches and other formal, onewaycommunications occur at thisdistance.25 feet or more.Very formal ceremonies andperformances, designed to precludetwoway discourse, occur at thisdistance.INFERENCES FROM INTERACTION DISTANCESHall (1969) speculates that interaction distance serves a communicative function, in thesense that the distances people adopt for their interactions give others clues about ❚❘ 53intended messages or the feelings being expressed in the relationship. Research in socialpsychology has largely substantiated Hall’s theory.In one experiment, Kenneth B. Little (1965) attributed various kinds ofrelationships among the people represented by cardboard cutouts and then asked hissubjects to place the cutouts in an arrangement. In another experiment, Little asked hissubjects to position live female actors, whose relationships with each other had beendescribed at varying levels of friendship. In both experiments, physical proximity ofassignment varied in accordance with the subjects’ information about the intimacy of therelationships. If the subjects thought that a pair of actresses or cardboard cutouts had amore intimate relationship than another pair, they placed them physically closer togetherthan they placed members of the emotionally remote pair.Several experimental studies suggest that adopting particular interaction distancesmight be one of the ways in which humans express their degree of attraction and likingfor others, in spite of their lack of conscious attention to the possibility that the distanceconveys a message. Albert Mehrabian (1968), a psychologist at the University ofCalifornia, Los Angeles, found that interaction distance (along with eye contact, bodyorientation, and body relaxation) was indicative of a communicator’s liking for anotherperson. Mehrabian asked different communicators to imagine that they were addressingpeople whom they either “liked intensely, liked moderately, neither liked nor disliked,disliked moderately, or disliked intensely.” Although he avoided telling thecommunicators he used as subjects how close to approach, Mehrabian found that themore likable the addressee was supposed to be, the closer the subjects moved towardthat person. (This was true whether the subjects were approaching someone of the sameor opposite sex and was equally true for male and female subjects.) Donn Byrne, GlenBaskett, and Louis Hodges (1971) found that females chose closer adjacent seating andmales chose closer facetoface seating when the experimenters informed them that thetarget persons had attitudes similar to their own. Not surprisingly, two other studiesshow that people stand closer to friends and acquaintances than to strangers (Little,1965; Willis, 1966). A person’s desire for approval was shown to decrease interactiondistance in still another study (Rosenfeld, 1965).Leadership methods and influence attempts also can determine how closely humanswill approach each other. Mehrabian and Williams (1969) instructed communicators toadopt different levels of intended persuasiveness for a communication and found thatsmaller interaction distances are adopted for higher persuasive intent.Interaction distance may reveal true feelings about immutable characteristics, evenwhen the people interacting may be reluctant to admit their feelings to themselves. Inpolite American society, it generally is inappropriate to express disdain or dislike foranother person with a handicap or other stigmatizing identification. Sociologist ErvingGoffman, in his book Stigma: Notes on the Management of Spoiled Identity (1963),intimates that powerful societal norms cause people to inflate the rankings they givewhen asked to rate the attractiveness of a handicapped person. However, Goffman citesresearch that suggests that nonstigmatized people betray their concealed uneasiness by54 ❘❚ maintaining a larger than normal distance when interacting with a person who allegedlypossesses a stigma such as epilepsy (Kleck, 1968).Temporary conditions of the communication target also may affect interactiondistance. Leipold (1963) observed that students whose stress level had been elevated bythe news that they were doing poorly in a course placed their chairs farther away from aperson with whom they were to discuss their academic progress than did nonstressedstudents.Cultural DifferencesHall (1969) observes that the distances adopted in daytoday interactions may beculturally determined. If Hall is correct, this phenomenon could have profoundimplications for international commerce and diplomacy. A business person from theUnited States or Europe, where the interaction distance appears to be relatively large,may seem cold, distant, and aloof to colleagues from Middle Eastern and East Asiancultures, where the interaction distance is smaller. Meanwhile, the Western person mayfeel that the Eastern person is being overly aggressive. If the intercultural encounteroccurs while both parties are standing, the pair is liable to do an odd little dance acrossthe room, in which the Westerner backs up while the Easterner advances. Unless one orboth parties are sensitive to this intercultural difference, both parties are likely to feelsufficiently uncomfortable to undermine the purpose of the meeting.APPLICATIONS OF KNOWLEDGE ABOUT INTERACTION DISTANCEResearch suggests that purposeful manipulation of the distance adopted duringinteractions can create (desired or undesired) emotional, attitudinal, or behavioral effectsin others.Robert Sommer, a psychologist at the University of California, Davis, has writtenextensively on the architectural design implications of proxemics. For example,Sommer’s (1967) research provides support for his expressive contact theory ofclassroom ecology. Generally, he has found that participation in classroom discussionincreases as a function of decreased distance and increased opportunity for contactbetween instructor and student. Students in frontrowcenter seats of classroomsconventionally arranged in rows participated more than did students who were seated atthe sides of the rooms. When classrooms are arranged in horseshoes rather than rows,more students are directly in contact with the instructor and more participation occurs.The implications of these findings for training, education, and managementcommunication are obvious.Several physiological and social phenomena suggest that purposely decreasinginteraction distance can be somewhat emotionally arousing. Eye contact decreases asconversants are brought closer together (Argyle and Dean, 1965). Galvanic skinresponse (GSR)—the changes in electrical conductivity of skin brought about by thevariability of palmar or other sweating—increases as a person is approached. ❚❘ 55(According to McBride, King, and James (1965), the increase of GSR occurs mostrapidly when the approach is frontal, less rapidly when it is from the side, and leastrapidly when it is from the rear.)BODY LANGUAGEThe idea of body language (kinesics) is very closely connected with the concept ofproxemic zones. People’s nonverbal messages—posture, gestures, movements, sounds,etc.—usually will express their attitudes toward the presence of others within theirspatial zones. For example, they may react to an uninvited intrusion into their personalzones by backing away, turning aside, avoiding eye contact, or appearing to bepreoccupied with some distraction. Two people who are engaged in a standupconversation often will turn so that the fronts of their bodies form a right angle. Thisenables them to control the level of personal involvement quite precisely.If stranger A is placed within the personal zone of individual B, B usually willadjust his body configuration. For example, on a crowded bus, rider B probably willkeep his face and torso oriented away from intruding stranger A. Rider B maypreoccupy himself with anything from reading a book to picking imaginary lint from hissleeve. His nonverbal signals say to intruder A, “I accept your presence, but I do notintend to interact with you in any significant way.” The intruding person probably willtransmit many of the same signals. If the two should decide to engage in conversation,their nonverbal signals are likely to change, reflecting their increased relaxation andacceptance of more involvement.Perhaps the most interesting study of body language centers on twoperson andsmallgroup interactions within the social zone. This is the space in which a great deal ofbusiness is transacted. It is also the zone in which casual social interactions occur.People in a business conference usually are within social distance of one another.However, participants who are sitting side by side might share their personal zoneswhile they confer quietly on some topic or other. The sidebyside geometry makes theproximity acceptable. At a family gathering or a quiet party in someone’s living room,people also will be within social distance of one another.USE OF THE THEORIESThe study of kinesics and proxemics offers abundant resources for interpretingnonverbal signals between people who are interacting at a social distance. General bodyposition, posture, movements, gestures, and small mannerisms can be observed andinterpreted to gain knowledge about the feelings and attitudes of individuals. Thisknowledge can be used to facilitate one’s own communication with others. By adoptingcertain nonverbal patterns, one can help others to relax, open up to communication, andincrease empathy. One also can compare the nonverbal messages of others with their56 ❘❚ verbal statements to determine whether they are holding back, concealing information,or trying to mislead.One can observe individuals and make some assessment of their general patterns ofrelating to others on physical terms. However, it is important to include factors such asthe presence of a large number of people, the general physical environment, the noiselevel, the social setting, and the physical peculiarities of the individuals involved. Forexample, when a short person is interacting with a tall person, the short person’spersonal zone might be larger than it would be if he or she were dealing with someoneof the same height. Many tall people are unaware that a difference in height intimidatessome shorter individuals, causing them to seek a larger personal zone from which tointeract.It should be remembered that the four proxemic zones represent attitudinal andbehavioral regions, rather than measurable aspects of the human body. In this regard,they should not be considered universal or invariable for any one individual. Eachperson’s behavior is shaped by many factors other than proxemic zones.REFERENCESArgyle, M., & Dean, J. (1965). Eyecontact distance and affiliation. Sociometry, 26, 289304.Byrne, D., Baskett, G .D., & Hodges, L. (1971). Behavioral indicators of interpersonal attraction. Journal ofApplied Social Psychology, 1, 137149.Goffman, E. (1963). Stigma: Notes on the management of spoiled identity. New York: PrenticeHall.Hall, E.T. (1959). The silent language. New York: Doubleday.Hall, E.T. (1969). The hidden dimension. New York: Doubleday.Hediger, H. (1950). Wild animals in captivity. London: Butterworths.Hediger, H. (1955). Studies of the psychology and behavior of captive animals in zoos and circuses. London:Butterworths.Hediger, H. (1961). The evolution of territorial behavior. In S.L. Washburn (Ed.), Social life of early man. NewYork: Viking Fund Publications In Anthropology, No. 31, 3457.Kleck, R. (1968). Physical stigma and nonverbal cues emitted in facetoface interaction. Human Relations, 21, 1928.Linder. D.E. (1974). Personal space. University Programs Modular Studies. Morristown, NJ: Learning Press.Little, K.B. (1965). Personal space. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 1, 237247.McBride, G., King, M.G., & James, J.W. (1965). Social proximity effects on GSR in adult humans. Journal ofPsychology, 61, 153157.Mehrabian, A. (1968). Relationship of attitude to seated posture, orientation and distance. Journal of Personalityand Social Psychology, 10, 2630.Mehrabian, A., & Williams M. (1969). Nonverbal concomitants of perceived and intended persuasiveness. Journalof Personality and Social Psychology, 13, 378.Rosenfeld, H.M. (1965). Effect of an approvalseeking induction on interpersonal proximity. PsychologicalReports, 17, 120122. ❚❘ 57Sommer, R. (1967). Personal space: The behavioral basis of design. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: PrenticeHall.Willis, F.M. (1966). Initial speaking distance as a function of the speaker’s relationship. Psychonomic Science, 6,221222.Proxemic Zones ❚❘ 59❚❘ ROGERS’ HELPING PROCESSDuring a professional career spanning more than half a century, the late psychologistCarl R. Rogers developed the clientcentered mode of psychotherapy (Rogers, 1965).The clientcentered approach appears to be effective and useful not only for meetingtherapeutic goals but for any circumstance involving the intent to be helpful. Thus, thehelping process Rogers describes (1961, 1965, 1970) is applicable to friendships, familyrelations, teaching, organization development, and management situations—whereverthe goal is to provide helpful counsel.CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ROGERIAN HELPING PROCESSPsychologists or knowledgeable lay people could read a transcript of a therapy sessionand point to interventions by the therapist that they would characterize as examples ofRogers’ “methods.” However, Rogers took vigorous exception to the notion that hissystem of psychotherapy could or should be boiled down to mechanical techniquesemployed by the therapist. He believed that the counselor who had a certain set ofattitudes would, as a result, effectively use techniques and methods consistent with thoseattitudes. On the other hand, a counselor who tries to employ a “method” that is notnatural to his or her personal orientation will not be successful.AttitudesClientcentered therapy embodies at least the following attitudes on the part of thetherapist:■ Respect for the client. The helper not only has to respect clients as people butalso has to respect their ability to provide answers and insights regarding theirown problems. Respect for the ability of clients justifies the use of a nondirectivemode of helping. A therapist who lacks this respect for the ability of clientsprobably would feel the need to direct their attempts to cope with their problems.■ Unconditional positive regard. This amounts to acceptance of clients for theirhumanness, regardless of what they might have done or the distorted perceptionsthey might harbor. This attitude makes it possible for clients to express feelingsand concerns that may frighten them. If therapists refrain from rejecting theirclients’ feelings or experiences, the clients can bring those disturbing parts oftheir personalities out into the open for the purpose of attaining therapeuticinsight.■ A view of the helper’s role as one of clarifying and objectifying the client’sfeelings. One of the most useful things a clientcentered therapist can do is to60 ❘❚ restate and reflect the concerns of clients. This allows clients to know that theirconcerns have been heard. This also can provide fresh insight, when clients aregroping to express vague or deeply buried concerns. Because the concerns aresomewhat novel to the clients themselves, the therapist’s restatements will soundlike new information and thereby will enable the clients to improve theirconceptualizations of their problems.■ Genuineness. According to Rogers, clientcentered counseling, if it is to beeffective, cannot be employed as a technique or trick. Reliance on the ability ofclients to identify and solve their own problems must be sincere; it cannot be asubtle manipulation by the therapist, calculated to cause clients to arrive at thetherapist’s insights. The therapist’s caring and unconditional positive regard forclients also must be genuine in order for interventions to succeed at being helpful.■ Empathic identification. For the helping process to be truly clientcentered, thetherapist must strive to become thoroughly immersed in the thoughts,perceptions, and feelings of the clients. The most effective therapists achieve thisgoal to a great extent. Rogers concludes that this leaves little or no time in thetherapeutic session for diagnosis, manipulation of the process, or otherconventionaltherapy activities. It is not the clientcentered therapist’s role tojudge clients. However, the identification is characterized by Rogers as empathicrather than emotional; that is, the therapist perceives and provides understandingof clients’ feelings rather than experiencing those feelings.“Methods”Despite the respect for clients and the commitment to nondirective helping, the clientcentered therapist plays an active role in selfdiscovery by clients. Rogers (1965)explains that “. . . passivity and seeming lack of interest or involvement experienced by the client as a rejection . . .” (p. 27). Instead, nondirective therapy isintended to communicate acceptance of clients, through the therapist’s active attempts toassist their struggles for growth.The nondirective therapist does much reflective listening. The therapist resists thetemptation to become a problem solver for or rescuer of clients. To do otherwise wouldsubvert one of the major goals of clientcentered therapy: improving clients’ abilities toview the world through their own eyes. According to Rogers (1965), during clientcentered therapy “. . . the individual moves away from a state where his thinking,feeling, and behavior are governed by the judgments and expectations of others, andtoward a state in which he relies upon his own experience for his values and standards”(p. 157).The clientcentered approach differs radically from traditional forms ofpsychotherapy. The most important difference is that clientcentered therapy is orientedtoward the perspective, needs, and goals of the client rather than those of the therapist.The therapist is a helper in the change process, not the director. Where a conventional ❚❘ 61therapist might provide a diagnosis and prescribe a cure, the clientcentered therapistwould invite the client to identify problems and experiment with selfformulatedstrategies for more healthy living.APPLICABILITY OF THE HELPING PROCESS OUTSIDEPSYCHOTHERAPYOf all the orientations toward psychological counseling, clientcentered therapyprobably offers the largest number of insights that can be applied outside therapeuticinterventions. The nondirective approach is unthreatening and ethically acceptable formany other helping situations. This is because the focus is on the autonomy andworthiness of clients rather than on their pathology. Helping methods that emphasizerespect for the person and genuineness of the helper’s motivations hardly can beregarded as unwarranted intrusions.Further, the philosophy and methods of Rogerian helping are easily comprehended,and a caring person can readily acquire the skills needed to provide emotional help toreasonably healthy colleagues. These methods are applicable in everyday interactionsand are especially effective in what Rogers (1970) calls “intensive group experiences.”The elegant simplicity of Rogerian procedures explains the durable success of Tgroupand teambuilding methods in the field of organization development. It also explains thepopularity of encounter groups during the 1970s and the continued survival of intensivegroup methods in training and development, management development, andpsychotherapy. Rogers (1977) remarks on the “natural and spontaneous caring” thatgroup members show for one another and how this enables them to deal “in a helpful,facilitating, and therapeutic fashion with the pain and suffering of others.” He concludesthat most people are more capable of being healing or therapeutic than we haveassumed, and that the key may be the permission or freedom generated by a caring,supportive, trusting emotional environment.REFERENCESRogers, C.R. (1961). On becoming a person: A therapist’s view of psychotherapy. Boston: Houghton Mifflin.Rogers, C.R. (1965). Client centered therapy: Its current practice, implications, and theory. Boston: HoughtonMifflin.Rogers, C.R. (1970). On encounter groups. New York: Harper & Row.Rogers, C.R. (1977). On personal power: Inner strength and its revolutionary impact. New York: Delta.62 ❘❚ Aspects ofClientCentered Approach ❚❘ 63❚❘ EGO STATES: PARENT/ADULT/CHILDLike many researchers, Eric Berne (1964) pondered the multiple nature of humanbeings. Combining his theory of transactional analysis with the multiplenature puzzle,Berne hypothesizes that there are three states of being that exist within all people. Thethree states are formulated in childhood and result from the incorporation of recordingsof internal events (feelings about events) and external events (data, information, andbehavioral messages from one’s parents) received during a child’s first five years. Fromthese findings, Berne went on to develop the Parent/Adult/Child (P/A/C) model, whichcategorizes human behavior into one of three ego states: Parent, Adult, or Child. Theego states, according to Berne, are the three basic ways in which people behave andreact. The illustration that follows depicts the Parent/Adult/Child ego states.Structural Diagram of Parent/Adult/Child Ego States*CHILDThe first state of being is Child, which is characterized by strong emotions and desires.The Child state is formed from internal events and is synthesized from the young child’sfeelings about the events that take place during those formative years. Harris (1969)hypothesizes that, because a child has limited powers of verbal communication, much ofthe data that he or she absorbs will take the form of feelings. Emotions such as fear,anger, delight, and joy are part of the Child state. Emotional and purely sensual feelingssuch as crying, jumping for joy, and sexual arousal also are part of the Child. The Childstate should not be confused with “childish” or “immature” behavior. The Child state isa category, whereas “childish” is a judgment. * Adapted from Berne, 1964.64 ❘❚ PARENTThe second state, Parent, is characterized by criticism, guilt, and “shoulds.” It is madeup of the many external events that occur during the child’s first five years. It includesall the rules and regulations that the child hears the parents say and infers from theirbehavior. Because a child of this age is unable to question, explain, or modify theactions and words of others, the external events and the messages that they contain arerecorded verbatim. A child believes that everything his or her parents do and say is thetruth. Many of these recordings—both verbal and nonverbal—are negative in tone (e.g.,“No,” “Don’t touch,” and so on). Although many of these messages are essential to thechild’s survival (“Don’t run out in the road!”), others are the sources of prejudice, guilt,or fear. Some are confusing; a father who punishes his son for hitting the baby but whobeats his wife may instill fear and confusion in the child. After the Parent stage forms, itbecomes the basis for much adult guilt, inhibition, prejudice, caution, habit, andunwillingness to change.ADULTThe Adult state begins to take shape at around ten months of age. This age is significantbecause it marks the beginning of the child’s ability to move about independently. Thisis the first time that the child has been able to explore, discover, and form opinionsindependently. For the first time, the child is not simply absorbing (Parent stage) orreacting (Child stage) but analyzing. For these reasons, Harris (1969) considers theAdult state to be the most rational, mature, nonjudgmental, and logical of the three egostates. The Adult state plays an important role, which is to balance the unquestionedacceptance and emotional reactions of the Parent and Child. Harris states: “One of theimportant functions of the Adult is to examine the data in the Parent, to see whether ornot it is true and still applicable today, and then to accept it or reject it; and to examinethe Child to see whether or not the feelings are appropriate to the present or are archaicand in response to archaic Parent data” (p. 30).Berne proposes a theory to explain the development of each ego state. When babiesare born, they are motivated by physical needs (e.g., food, shelter, warmth). They feelsecure when these are met and insecure and uncomfortable when they are not. Bernehypothesizes that babies’ experiences during this stage, in addition to the basic needsand emotions, become the Child ego state.As children grow, they begin to receive messages about how they should andshould not act from parents, teachers, and other authority figures. Childrenunquestioningly accept and imitate adults’ messages until these messages become partof the Parent ego state.At the same time, children are trying to discern their places in the world. Usingtheir rational faculties, children begin to understand that they are not the center of theuniverse, that they must make choices, and that they are accountable for their actions. ❚❘ 65These and other realizations form the basis for the Adult ego state, which attempts toarrange the world in a logical order.USES OF THE MODELBerne developed a system of group therapy called transactional analysis, which uses theParent/Adult/Child egostates model. In transactional analysis (T.A.), people completean inventory that reveals which of the three ego states are their preferred modes ofbehavior. They can then be trained in subjects such as adapting their preferred ego statesto various situations, getting along with people who prefer other “styles,” and balancingthe three ego states to achieve better selfimages.T.A. can be used in organizations as a method of fostering better employeeemployee or supervisoremployee interactions, as part of teambuilding sessions, and soon. The Parent/Adult/Child Model also can be used in studies of the following:■ Prejudice (the excessive influence or contamination of the Adult by the Parent),■ Freedom to change (the capacity of the Adult to adapt the ego state to thesituation),■ Guilt (the Parent’s ability to punish the Child for certain types of feelings orbehaviors, and■ Selfimage (the Child state as the source of basic attitudes about oneself).FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE P/A/C MODEL:THE I’M OK—YOU’RE OK THEORYIn the book entitled I’m OK—You’re OK: A Practical Guide to Transactional Analysis,Thomas Harris (1969) expands Berne’s concept of the P/A/C ego states. Harris alsoconsiders Berne’s conclusion that the human brain stores data “in stereo”: it records notonly events but the feelings attached to those events, thus allowing people to recall notonly facts but the feelings that were experienced when an event was “recorded.” Thisexplains why sounds and smells, for example, can conjure up powerful memories andemotions.THE LIFE POSITIONHarris states that by the child’s second or third year, he or she has formed a life position.Harris equates the life position to what Piaget calls the “state of equilibrium.” The lifeposition is the result of two or three years’ worth of data input (the Parent and Childstates) along with personal exploration and findings (the Adult state). According toHarris, children decide on one of the following three life positions: I’m Not OK—You’reOK; I’m Not OK—You’re Not OK; or I’m OK—You’re Not OK. The basis for thisdecision is what Harris calls stroking and nonstroking. Strokes are, literally, physical66 ❘❚ contact and comforting. To an infant, strokes also are the necessities for survival: food,warmth, etc. After birth (a traumatic and terrifying experience), there is a brief period oftime during which no stroking occurs. The infant has moved abruptly from a warm,dark, safe environment to one that is bright, cold, loud, and uncomfortable. This newenvironment is “not OK.” This notOKness is the sense that the infant gets about himselfor herself. The person who provides warmth, food, and stroking is thereforeautomatically OK. The first and most common life position, formed practically at birth,is I’m Not OKYou’re OK.Life positions are not interchangeable; a person cannot shift from one to another. Alife position, once chosen—even though it is an unconscious decision—cannot bechanged. The only exception occurs when a person consciously decides to replace his orher dysfunctional life position with the fourth and healthiest life position, I’m OK—You’re OK. Following are descriptions of the original three life positions.1. I’m not OK—You’re OK. A person who holds this viewpoint believes that he orshe is less adequate than everybody else and that all others are better than he orshe is. This is a result of receiving some stroking but not enough. Consequently,many people struggle with feelings of inferiority and the fear that they are notgood enough. This life position probably is the most universal, as virtually allpeople have these feelings at one time or another. A twist on this life position isthe message that You Can Be OK, If. A person who feels this way will conquerchallenge after challenge but will continue to feel inadequate.2. I’m not OK—You’re not OK. People who view the world through this lifeposition feel the most hopeless. A child who forms this life position decides thatnot only is he or she not OK, but that the rest of the world and the people in it arehopeless and terrible, too. Harris states that such children have ceased to receivestrokes after such time as stroking was essential to their survival. In other words,as soon as the child no longer needs to be picked up and fed, “babying” stops andpunishments become more common and more severe. The child concludes thathe or she is not OK (not receiving strokes) and that others also are not OK (notdoing the hopedfor stroking). Such people, according to Harris, are likely tobecome mentally disturbed, withdrawn, and hopeless. They reject all futureloving overtures. In addition, the Adult states that are stunted in development forlack of stroking, are not used, atrophy, and are difficult to reach.3. I’m OK—You’re Not OK. This life position is the most dysfunctional anddisturbed. According to Harris, it usually results from severe abuse duringchildhood. If a child is abused badly enough, he or she realizes that parents(others) are not OK. Eventually, out of sheer selfdefense, the child concludesthat he or she is OK—better off—without the abuse that can be thought of asnegative stroking. The person who takes the I’m OKYou’re Not OK positionreceives no stroking; any strokes received will have to be engineered. Thus, thisperson comes to believe that, first, no one besides himself or herself is OK; and ❚❘ 67second, that any stroking received is false. This is the life position of people whoare regarded as psychopaths, who tend to become serial killers, and so on.Although there are times when the Parent or Child states are appropriate (joy andguilt certainly are warranted sometimes), Harris believes that people should strive tokeep their transactions in the Adult state. Harris says that the Parent and Child states caninhibit relationships and cause psychological difficulties if not recognized and kept incheck. He also says that the ways in which an individual’s Parent, Adult, and Child areconcentrated in the psyche create one of four possible life positions. The original threelife positions have been described above. The fourth life position differs from the firstthree because it can be chosen consciously and because it is the healthiest and most wellbalanced approach to life.I’m OK—You’re OKHarris stresses that the I’m OK—You’re OK life position is chosen. One cannot holdthis position without a conscious decision to adopt it as one’s philosophy of life. Thisposition also is not magic; it will not mend all wounds and provide instant popularity,love, selffulfillment, and happiness. The decision to adopt the I’m OK—You’re OK lifeposition should be undertaken with the determination to approach life from the Adultperspective, to persist if the Adult life position is not immediately successful, and torealize that the decision will require a great deal of personal energy and hard work. Ittakes work to overcome a lifetime of feeling that one is not OK or that others are notOK.REFERENCESBerne, E. (1961). Transactional analysis in psychotherapy. New York: Grove Press.Berne, E. (1964). Games people play. New York: Grove Press.Berne, E. (1972). What do you say after you say hello? New York: Grove Press.Harris, T.A. (1969). I’m OK—you’re OK: A practical guide to transactional analysis. New York: Harper & Row.SOURCEBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.68 ❘❚ CHILDPARENTADULTNurturing ControllingNatural AdaptedStructural Diagram ofParent/Adult/Child Ego StatesAdapted from Berne, 1964. ❚❘ 69❚❘ OK/NOT OK LIFE POSITIONSThe concept of life positions, which is an important part of transactionalanalysis theory,was explored by Thomas Harris (1969) as a way of understanding behavior. The lifepositions concept provides a conceptual framework for understanding people in terms ofwhether they see themselves and others as either “OK” or “not OK.” OK feelings arefeelings of power, capability, wellbeing, lovableness, and personal worth. NotOKfeelings are the opposite: feelings of weakness, incompetence, helplessness,insignificance, anxiety, unworthiness of love, and worthlessness.FOUR EXTREME POSITIONSThe concept of life positions is based on the theory that, early in life, people adopt afundamental belief about their own selfworth and about the worth of others. Peoplewho decide that they or others generally are good and worthwhile are said to haveadopted an “OK” life position. Likewise, people who decide that they or othersgenerally are bad or worthless are said to have adopted a “not OK” life position. Peoplerarely abandon their basic life positions; in fact, the basic life positions usually arereinforced by selective perception and by reactions to experiences. The only exceptionoccurs when a person consciously decides to replace his or her dysfunctional lifeposition with the fourth and healthiest life position, I’m OK—You’re OK.The initial and most common life position is adopted soon after birth. Birth is atraumatic and terrifying experience, and there is a brief period of time during which nostroking (physical contact, warmth, nourishment, and so on) occurs. The infant hasmoved abruptly from a warm, dark, safe environment to one that is bright, cold, loud,and uncomfortable. This new environment is, simply, “not OK.” This notOKness is thefirst feeling that the infant has about himself or herself. The person who provideswarmth, food, and stroking is, therefore, OK. The first life position is I’m Not OK—You’re OK.Following are descriptions of the four life positions, which are made up fromcombinations of OK or notOK perceptions of oneself and others. The combinations are:1. I’m Not OK—You’re OK. A person who holds this life position believes that heor she is inferior to others, especially in situations that concern competence,influence, or personal power. Burdened with selfdefeating attitudes and a lackof confidence, a person in this position feels unable to measure up to otherpeople.2. I’m Not OK—You’re Not OK. This position often is a symptom of a highlymaladjusted personality. A person who holds this life position believes that he orshe is worthless—and so is everyone else. Suspicious of others, such people70 ❘❚ become anxious about what they or others might do that will be harmful to them.They feel disconnected from other people and alienated from their environments.But they have little motivation to try to overcome their negative feelings towardthemselves and others.3. I’m OKYou’re Not OK. People who hold this life position believe that theycannot rely on anyone but themselves. They believe that other people areworthless and may be enemies, and that their lives would be fine if people wouldleave them alone. No matter what happens to this type of person, it is alwayssomeone else’s fault. Because they feel unable to depend on anyone butthemselves, such people soon learn to provide their own internal satisfactions.4. I’m OKYou’re OK. The fourth life position is considered the healthiest andrequires conscious effort to achieve. People who hold the I’m OKYou’re OKviewpoint see themselves as interdependent with others and with theirenvironments. Messages from others confirming that they are OK are acceptedand appreciated but are not essential to their feelings of selfworth. Because theyrealize that selfesteem is an individual responsibility, it is easy for people in theI’m OKYou’re OK life position to see others as OK as well.Berne postulates that the first three life positions result from childhood experiences.In contrast, the fourth position represents a perceptual jump. The I’m OKYou’re OKposition can be reached only through conscious reevaluation of one’s selfconcept. Thefigure at the end of this article depicts the structural relationships of the four basic lifepositions. The area within the square represents all possible life positions, with the fourextreme positions depicted in the corners. The dotted line suggests the perceptual jumpthat is required to achieve the I’m OKYou’re OK life position.DEVELOPMENT OF LIFE POSITIONSAn analysis of the development of the basic life positions can lead to an understandingof the nature and consequences of each life position. Infants have a mixture of OK andnot OK feelings, with the not OK feelings predominating. Infants feel OK when theirphysical needs are satisfied and when they receive positive strokes (physical attention,recognition, and affection) from parents or other caregivers. When their needs are notmet, they feel not OK. Because they are small, powerless, and inept, babies’ earlyexperiences provide them with many negative strokes. Withheld or negative stroking isnot necessarily deliberate on the part of the caregivers and may result from the babies’inability to communicate their needs. Because adults can choose whether or not theywish to satisfy babies’ needs, babies perceive adults as allpowerful and therefore OK.For most people, the early I’m Not OKYou’re OK life position becomes a habit.Because the events in most people’s lives do not force them to reevaluate theirpositions, they remain with what is comfortable and familiar.A preponderance of negative or withheld strokes may force the child to withdrawand perhaps to switch to one of the other two basic life positions. The battered child on ❚❘ 71whom adults inflict pain may eventually conclude that other people are not OK. Thechild may find that he or she can satisfy the need for strokes better than adults can,thereby concluding that he or she is OK and that others are not OK. The child comes tobelieve that all would be well if it were not for the existence of other people.The third life position, I’m Not OKYou’re Not OK, occurs when the child’sstrokes are negative or withheld but are not devastating enough to cause the child toadopt the I’m OKYou’re Not OK position in selfdefense. Instead of being beaten, forexample, the child may be denied affection or neglected. In this case, the child willcontinue to feel not OK and will decide that others also are not OK.USE OF THE OKNOT OK PRINCIPLESThe strengths of the lifepositions theory are its uncomplicated terminology and the factthat relevant examples of the basic life positions can be elicited from almost any group.Unfortunately, the popularity of this concept has lessened its impact. The concepts arewidely known but are not necessarily widely understood. The terms OK and not OKhave become household words for many people, which dilutes the impact of the theory.Harris (1969) stresses that the I’m OKYou’re OK life position is not a cureall; itwill not heal all wounds or provide instant popularity, love, selffulfillment, orhappiness. Rather, an attempt to adopt this life position should be undertaken from amature, thoughtful decision to approach life from a rational perspective, to persist evenif success is not immediate, and to realize that the decision will require a great deal ofpersonal energy and hard work. After all, it takes work to overcome a lifetime of feelingworthless or feeling that others cannot be accepted as they are.REFERENCESBerne, E. (1961). Transactional analysis in psychotherapy. New York: Grove Press.Harris, T.A. (1969). I’m OK—you’re OK: A practical guide to transactional analysis. New York: Harper & Row.SOURCEBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.72 ❘❚ ’ ’ ’ ’’ ’ ’ ’Structural Diagram of the BasicLife Positions Adapted from Harris, 1967. ❚❘ 73❚❘ TRANSACTIONAL ANALYSISThe theory of transactional analysis (T.A.), developed by Eric Berne (1961), is acomprehensive and useful way of analyzing interpersonal interactions. According toBerne, the interactions between two people (called transactions) are precipitated bytransactional contracts. The transactional contract is an agreement, usually unspoken,between two people to interact with each other in ways that follow certain patterns.Some transactions are brief, ritualized, and can be conducted between people who arevirtually strangers (“Hello, how are you?”; “Fine, thank you.”). Other transactions, suchas those between spouses, are much more intimate in nature.Berne hypothesizes that each person possesses three ego states (patterned sets ofthoughts and feelings): a Parent, an Adult, and a Child.1 One ego state dominates inevery transaction; this is true for both the sender and the receiver of the message.The Parent is the lawandorder ego state. The Parent ego state provides us with ourvalues, opinions, social consciences, rules and regulations, “shoulds” and “should nots,”and “howto” information. The Parent also has a nurturing aspect: it guides, teaches, andadvises. A person acting from the Parent ego state is behaving according to his or hersystem of values.The Adult is the unemotional, rational ego state. When operating from this state, aperson collects information, weighs alternatives, tests reality, suggests hypotheses, andmakes decisions. The Adult also exchanges information and ideas with others. TheAdult state operates free of strong feelings.The Child is the “feeling” state. It is the storehouse of feelings and emotionalreaction patterns from childhood. A person whose strong feelings are triggered is said tobe operating from the Child ego state.Transactionalanalysis theory asserts that every person possesses all the ego statesand can move from state to state when interacting with others. One state is notconsidered to be better or more desirable than another. For example, the Child state isnot considered immature or undesirable; it merely denotes a behavioral patterncharacterized by strong feelings. Similarly, the Parent state is neither good nor bad; itsimply is a source of rules and regulations. And the Adult state, although it examinesand updates data from the Parent and the Child to determine the appropriate response ineach circumstance, should not be considered the ideal state for all transactions. 1 See the article entitled “Ego States” for a detailed description of Parent/Adult/Child theory.74 ❘❚ THE TRANSACTIONDuring a transaction, a message originates in one person’s ego state and is “sent” to aparticular ego state of another person. When two people are interacting, each one mayoperate from any one of the three ego states. Therefore, nine possible combinations ofego states must be considered when one is trying to understand and analyze transactions.The figure on the next page illustrates several of the possible types of transactions.A fundamental concept of transactional analysis is that the Adult state acts as amediator. If a person’s ego states are kept appropriately separate from one another, theAdult can serve as a general monitor of experiences and reactions. The Adult canprevent a person from becoming angry about or hurt by minor provocations whileenabling an appropriate amount of acknowledgment and experience of the Child feelingsinvolved.Transactionalanalysis theory suggests that people can influence the ego state ofothers in addition to controlling their own ego states. In order to do this, one must beaware of one’s own ego configuration, assess the ego configuration of the other person,and adopt strategies to bring about the desired type of transaction. By observing theactions of another person and by ascertaining that person’s ego state, one can act orspeak in the way most likely to influence the person’s ego state in one’s favor.USES OF TRANSACTIONALANALYSIS THEORYThe concepts of transactional analysis are applicable to many learning situations. It isboth interesting and useful to examine reallife experiences to determine the ego statefrom which each participant was operating at the time of the transaction. The theory ofT.A. focuses on observable behavior during transactions. Therefore, the ability to labelbehavior as originating from “my Parent” or “my Child” facilitates communicationbetween participants. The principles of T.A. are useful for exploring the dynamics ofsupervisorsubordinate relationships and for helping couples to reach betterunderstanding of their relationships.REFERENCESBerne, E. (1961). Transactional analysis in psychotherapy. New York: Grove Press.Harris, T.A. (1969). I’m OK—you’re OK: A practical guide to transactional analysis. New York: Harper & Row.SOURCEBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company. ❚❘ 75ParentChild AdultAdultParentParent ChildChildTypical Transactions Between Ego States Adapted from Berne, 1964.76 ❘❚ ❚❘ TRANSACTIONAL GAMESDeveloped from Berne’s (1964) theory of transactional analysis, the transactionalgamesconcept describes a highly structured and socially dysfunctional form of interaction. Atransactional game is a sequence of manipulative messages or transactions that result ina psychological “win” for the initiator of the game and a loss for his or her unwittingpartner.The transactional game represents one type of transaction, of which there is a widerange of possibilities. Berne (1964) divides the range of transactions into six categories,each characterized by a different level of involvement and by different behavior. The sixstages of interpersonal involvement are:■ Withdrawal,■ Rituals,■ Pastimes,■ Activities,■ Games, and■ Intimacy.The illustration on page 77 depicts the behaviors and actions associated with each stageof involvement.The transactionalgames concept utilizes a component of transactionalanalysistheory: the three ego states of individual personality (Parent, Adult, and Child). An egostate is a pattern of thoughts and feelings. According to Berne (1964), the Parent egostate provides us with moral, social, and personal values as well as with traditionalstandards of behavior. The Adult ego state is concerned with gathering, analyzing, andtesting information. The Child ego state is responsible for basic emotions such as fear,joy, anger, and so on. Berne theorizes that these three ego states are present within eachperson, and that each transaction (interaction) with another person is dominated by oneof the ego states.The figure on page 78 illustrates the use of ego states to analyze a transactionalgame. The numbered arrows indicate the ego state from which each sender’s “message”originated, the ego state of the person to whom the message was directed, and the orderin which the messages were sent and received. The game depicted here is called “KickMe.” (Whimsical titles for games are characteristic of transactionalgames theory. Bernelabels other games “If It Weren’t For You,” “I’m Only Trying To Help,” and “Now I’veGot You, You SonofaBitch.”) ❚❘ 77LEVEL TYPICAL BEHAVIORWithdrawal Physical departure from a threatening situationPsychological withdrawal if physical departure is not feasibleSilence, preoccupation, pretending to be not thereRituals Standard behaviorDiscussions or conversations that deal with information known to both partiesSocial rituals such as greeting, leavetaking, and small talkCeremonies, highly structured group behavior (plays, weddings, funerals, etc.)Pastimes Passing the time, small talk, light conversation, recreation (e.g., sports, cardgames.)Activities Taskoriented processesAttending to everyday businessCarrying out business activities, commerce, social activities, meeting socialobligationsCommunicating, negotiating, working togetherGames Complex interpersonal transactionsStatements about each other, rather than about processesSubtle psychological attacks, diversions, and “Not OK” feelingsIntimacy Sense of privacy, physical contactPleasurable stroking, nurturing, and being nurturedIn some situations, sexual arousal and/or sexual intercourseLevels of Interpersonal Involvement78 ❘❚ "KICK ME" – A GAMESituation: A very formal dinner party.MESSAGE PERSON1. “Tell me you love me.” (A)2. “Stop making a scene.” (B)3. “You never show any affection! (A)You only care about yourself!” (“I feel guilty.”) (B) (“Take that, you bum!”) (A)The Transactional Game Process Adapted from Berne, 1964 ❚❘ 791. Message number one, “Tell me you love me,” is person A’s attempt to begin thegame. This message is directed from A’s Child state to B’s Parent state. It is thebeginning of a setup because A realizes that the highly formal situation (thedinner party) probably will constrain B from giving the requested response or“stroke.”2. Person B agrees to participate in the game and responds with “Stop making ascene,” a message from B’s Parent to A’s Child. So far, the transaction is aParentChild exchange.3. In the third message, A introduces a switch or crossed transaction in which A’sParent berates B’s Child: “You never show any affection! You only care aboutyourself!” With this transaction, A gains psychological superiority. B feels guiltyfor having scolded A, accepts a onedown status (a Child ego state), and has lostthe game.The crossedarrow configuration of the illustration is characteristic of transactionalgames. Transactional games often veer away from the original subject of the transactionbecause one player always introduces a message that is conceptually different from thepreceding messages. In the “Kick Me” game, for example, the subject shifts from A’sdesire for affection to B’s selfishness. Unprepared for the switch, B is caught off guard.Berne’s (1964) approach to games implies the following: a selfactualized personshould be able to move freely along the continuum of emotional involvement withoutrelying on games as the vehicle for his or her transactions. People use transactionalgames to keep themselves from becoming intimate with others. By establishing a “oneup” status with the other person, the player can create and maintain a “safe” state ofpsychological separation.IMPLICATIONSThe concept of transactional games focuses attention on the dysfunctional strategies thatmany people use to protect themselves from the emotional risks of intimacy. Familiaritywith the game player’s manipulations also can be useful for people who do not wish tobecome unwitting partners. If a person realizes that he or she is being enticed into agame, firm adherence to the Adult ego state, analysis of the transaction, and proposal ofalternatives to the initiator can squelch the game before it becomes destructive.REFERENCEBerne, E. (1964). Games people play. New York: Grove Press.SOURCEBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.80 ❘❚ ❚❘ DIAGRAMING COMMUNICATION NETWORKSA number of researchers (Bavelas, 1950; Bavelas & Barrett, 1951; Davis, 1969; Leavitt,1951) have studied intergroup relationships and have diagramed the communicationnetworks that exist among members. These networks, which affect groups’ socialstructures and performance, can provide insight into interpersonal dynamics and—perhaps—tensions.It is easy to diagram communication networks for groups of three, four, and fivepeople, as shown in the figure below. Each dot represents a group member, and theconnecting lines represent the members’ channels of communication and interaction.The networks depicted are arranged in increasing order according to the number ofavailable relationship channels.Each person in a relationship experiences that relationship differently. Therefore,communication network diagrams must illustrate the direction of the information flow orof the attraction of one person to another. For example, a person may feel a strongPossible Communications Networks in Small Groups Adapted from J.H. Davis, Group Performance, © 1969, by AddisonWesley Publishing Company, Inc., Reading. Massachusetts.Reprinted with permission of the publisher. ❚❘ 81attraction to another person but may hardly be noticed in return. Communicationnetwork diagrams can depict whether an attraction is onesided or mutual and whetherinformation flows one way only or back and forth. The illustration that follows depictsthe concept of direction as applied to a threeperson diagram.Direction of Information Flow in Communication NetworksWhen relationships are the result of necessity rather than of choice, the resultingnetworks of communication are known as formal networks. Formal networks existbetween managers and subordinates and between coworkers who are not wellacquainted. Networks that emerge because people choose to interact are known asinformal networks. Informal networks may coexist with formal networks. For example,a group may communicate formally through letters and memos, while the informalnetwork (the “grapevine”) may operate much faster and more efficiently. This mayrender the formal network useless except for purposes of documentation.When diagraming communication networks, it also is important to consider anycontact that members of a network may have with their environment. For example,certain members only may be authorized to interact with people outside the group,which will affect the way in which information flows between the group members andthe outside world. The illustrations on the next page depict possible configurations of agroup of three people whose relationships vary within the boundaries of their “groupspace” and with different outside contacts. In the first illustration, members B and C ofthe triad will know only what member A tells them about the external environment. Inthe second illustration, members B and C will receive outside information but memberA will not. In the third illustration, all members receive and share observations about theenvironment. Interestingly, studies have shown that the efficiency of a group does notincrease linearly with an increase in communication channels.The SociomatrixMapping a communication network for groups of more than five people can be verycomplex. Such groups may wish to utilize a sociomatrix rather than a diagram. In thenext illustration, the members of the group are represented by the letters A, B, and C.The rows in the matrix depict initiators of communication (output). The columns in thematrix represent the receivers (input). A blank cell indicates no communication betweentwo members; an X in a cell represents communication made. In the example, the fourthrow and fourth column represent the environment outside the group. It is apparent that82 ❘❚ RECEIVERINITIATORA B C ENV.ABCENV.X XXXX X ❚❘ 83members B and C receive input from the environment but that they do not initiate anyoutput. By examining the rows, we see that each member initiates communication to atleast one other member. However, the columns reveal that member A receives noinformation from the other members and is isolated from the group.USES OF THE COMMUNICATIONNETWORK CONCEPTA diagram of the communication networks of a group’s structure is subject to people’sperceptions of the communication channels but can produce some interesting insights.For example, the cause of an employee’s poor performance may be discovered by meansof a groupnetwork diagram that shows that the person is not given the informationnecessary to do his or her job.The communicationnetworks concept also can be useful in experiential learning asa tool for fostering group development. The diagrams and matrices can be used bygroups for the purposes of selfexamination, conflict resolution, or problem solving.REFERENCESBavelas, A. (1950). Communication patterns in taskoriented groups. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America,22, 725730.Bavelas, A., & Barrett, D. (1951). An experimental approach to organizational communication. Personnel, 27,367371.Davis, J.H. (1969). Group performance. Reading, MA: AddisonWesley.Leavitt, H.J. (1951). Some effects of certain patterns on group performance. Journal of Abnormal and SocialPsychology, 46, 367371.SOURCEBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.84 ❘❚ ❚❘ EMOTIONAL STYLES INWORKGROUP RELATIONSIrving Weschler (1961) believes that small groups differ in the manner in whichemotions are displayed and that people differ in the manner in which they react toemotional stimuli. He says that human beings exhibit a characteristic style of managingemotions in smallgroup and work relationships. According to Weschler, one learns as achild to react in certain ways to the emotional content of group situations. As one growsolder, patterns develop that ultimately lead to predictable adult behaviors (or styles) ingroup situations. People are most comfortable with and tend to behave in a style that isfamiliar to them.EMOTIONAL STYLESWeschler says that the manner in which a person reacts to the emotional content ofgroup interaction is an effective way to determine that individual’s style. Some peoplework most effectively with “tender” emotions (e.g., affection, love, endearment,compassion) and others work most effectively with “strong” emotions (e.g., hostility,animosity, aggression). Three typical behavioral patterns are associated with anindividual group member’s reaction to emotions (see the figure on page 97).■ Friendly helpers are people who reject strong emotion yet are very comfortablewith tender emotion.■ Strong achievers reject tender emotion yet are very comfortable with strongemotion.■ Logical thinkers are uncomfortable with all emotion and tend to displaceemotions with logic, precision, data, facts, and knowledge.In the illustration, emotional styles appear as mutually exclusive behavioral extremes. Inreality, people are most often some combination of the three styles.IMPLICATIONS OF EMOTIONAL STYLEEach emotional style has implications for the manner in which individuals function asgroup members: how they respond to emotional stimuli, what they fear, how theyattempt to influence other group members, how they react in stressful situations, andwhat they need to learn in order to become effective group members.Friendly Helper: In the group setting, friendly helpers typically prefer warmth,compromise, and harmony, and typically attempt to reduce any tension that builds up ❚❘ 85during group activities. Friendly helpers are wellsuited for the role of gatekeeperbecause of their concern for group harmony. Friendly helpers reject strong emotions, donot tend toward selfassertion, yet readily accept the tender emotions in themselves andothers. Friendly helpers most fear conflict, loss of affection, and emotional hurt.Attempts at group influence are likely to include praise of others, conciliation, appeals topity, entertainment, or favors for other group members. Stress is likely to producedependence on others and an inclination toward depression. Friendly helpers most needto learn how to assert themselves, to ask for what they want, and to be critical andevaluative of ideas.Strong Achiever: In the group setting, strong achievers typically prefer taskoriented activities, e.g., initiating action, coordinating, and pressing for results. Strongachievers are well suited to gatekeeping roles because of their desire for command.Strong achievers reject affection and tender emotions, tend to be selfassertive, andreadily accept aggressive qualities in themselves and others. Strong achievers most fearbeing perceived as soft or sentimental and losing control and influence within the group.Attempts at group influence are likely to include giving orders, threatening deprivation,or issuing challenges. Stress is likely to produce domination or exploitation of othersand impulsive overactivity. Strong achievers most need to learn patience and how togive support to others.Logical Thinker: Logical thinkers most often prefer information gathering and theclarification of words and ideas. Out of their desire to substitute logic, accuracy, andselfreliance for emotional involvement, logical thinkers are well suited for functionalroles that allow them to systemize procedures and evaluate proposals. They tend toreject both strong and tender emotions. Logical thinkers most fear confusion, loss ofstructure, or being wrong; they often dislike feeling obligated to others or beingoverpowered by emotions and impulse. Attempts at group influence are likely to includeappeals to logic and fact that include clever argument and an overwhelming knowledgeof the rules and regulations. Stress is likely to produce withdrawal and anuncompromising adherence to rules and regulations. Logical thinkers most need tobecome aware of their feelings, accept closeness and intimacy, and express emotion.Weschler believes that understanding group effectiveness is dependent onunderstanding the group’s needs for emotional reactions and the group members’ abilityto meet those needs. As a group learns to more fully understand its emotional climate, itbecomes more skilled in understanding what task and maintenance roles group membersare most comfortable performing and in determining what standards should be used inevaluating group members, how group members will attempt to influence one another,what group members will fear, how they will react to stress, and what each of themneeds to learn in order to become more productive and effective.86 ❘❚ REFERENCEWeschler, I. (1961). Emotional styles in work and Tgroup relations (Unpublished paper). Presented at theNational Training Lab program.Acceptstender emotionsAcceptsstrong emotionsDisplaces emotions withlogic, precision, data,facts, knowledgeRejectsstrong emotionsRejectstender emotionsUncomfortablewith all emotion88 ❘❚ ❚❘ FIVE STAGES OF GROUP DEVELOPMENTIn 1965, Bruce W. Tuckman hypothesized that groups go through four stages ofdevelopment during their formation, existence, and dispersal:■ Forming,■ Storming,■ Norming, and■ Performing.On reviewing studies of his hypothesis in 1977, Tuckman decided to add a fifth andfinal stage of group development: Adjourning.Other researchers have labeled similar stages of group development. Charrier(1974) calls them Polite or Why We’re Here; Bid for Power; Constructive; and Esprit.Cooke and Widdis (1988) call them Polite or Purpose; Power; Positive; and Proficient.The figure that follows illustrates the relationships between some of theseclassifications.Tuckman Charrier Cooke & WiddisFormingStormingNormingPerformingAdjourningPoliteWhy We’re HereBid for PowerConstructiveEspritPolitePurposePowerPositiveProficientJones (1974) depicts the model to show the four typical stages in the evolution of agroup in relation to two major dimensions of personal relations and task functions. Theprogress along these two paths is parallel and interrelated, as shown in the figure on thenext page.The personalrelations dimension of the model encompasses all theinterrelationships that people develop and sustain in the group—their feelings,expectations, commitments, assumptions, and problems with one another. The stages ofpersonal relations correlate with the development of the identity and functions of agroup from the personal orientations of individual members. The stages of task functionscorrelate with the progress of a group in understanding and accomplishing its work. As agroup moves through the personalrelations and taskfunctions stages simultaneously,the progress and setbacks in one dimension influence the behavior and progress in theother. ❚❘ 89Task FunctionsSTAGES ARE SEQUENTIAL AND DEVELOPMENTALThe stages of group development are sequential and developmental. A group willproceed through these five stages only as far as its members are willing to grow. Groupcohesiveness seems to depend on how well group members can relate in the same phaseat the same time. Each member must be prepared to give up something at each step inorder to make the group move to the next stage. The timing of each will depend on thenature of the group, the members, and the leadership of the group. Issues and concernsmust be resolved in each stage before the group can move on. If the group is not able toresolve such issues, the dominant behavior will become either apathy or conflict, andgroup disintegration will result.STAGE 1: FORMINGIn the Forming stage, personal relations are characterized by dependence. Groupmembers rely on safe, patterned behavior and look to the group leader for guidance anddirection. Group members have a desire for acceptance by the group and a need to besure that the group is safe. They set about gathering impressions and data about thesimilarities and differences among them and forming preferences for futuresubgrouping. Rules of behavior seem to be to keep things simple and avoid controversy.Serious topics and feelings are avoided.The major task functions also concern orientation. Members attempt to becomeoriented to the task as well as to one another. Discussion centers around defining thescope of the task, how to approach it, and similar concerns.90 ❘❚ To grow from this stage to the next, each member must relinquish the comfort ofnonthreatening topics and risk the possibility of conflict.STAGE 2: STORMINGThe next stage, which Tuckman calls Storming, is characterized by competition andconflict in the personalrelations dimension and organization in the taskfunctionsdimension. As the group members attempt to organize for the task, conflict inevitablyresults in their personal relations. Individuals have to bend and mold their feelings,ideas, attitudes, and beliefs to suit the group organization. Because of fear of exposure orweakness or fear of failure at tasks, there will be an increased desire for structure orclarification and commitment to structure. Although conflicts may or may not surface asgroup issues, they do exist. Questions will arise about who is going to be responsible forwhat, what the rules are, what the reward system is, and what the criteria for evaluationare. These reflect conflicts over leadership, structure, power, and authority. There maybe wide swings in members’ behavior based on emerging issues of competition andhostilities. Because of the discomfort generated during this stage, some members mayremain completely silent while others attempt to dominate.In order to progress to the next stage, group members must move from a “testingand proving” mentality to a problemsolving mentality. The most important trait inhelping groups to move on to the next stage seems to be the ability to listen.STAGE 3: NORMINGIn Tuckman’s Norming stage, interpersonal relations are characterized by cohesion.Group members are engaged in active acknowledgment of all members’ contributions,community building and maintenance, and solving of group issues. Members are willingto change their preconceived ideas or opinions on the basis of facts presented by othermembers, and they actively ask questions of one another. Leadership is shared, andcliques dissolve. When members begin to know—and identify with—one another, thelevel of trust in their personal relations contributes to the development of groupcohesion. It is during this stage of development (assuming that the group gets this far)that people begin to experience a sense of groupness and a feeling of catharsis at havingresolved interpersonal conflicts.The major task function of stage three is the data flow between group members;they share feelings and ideas, solicit and give feedback to one another, and exploreactions related to the task. Creativity is high. If this stage of data flow and cohesion isattained by the group members, their interactions are characterized by openness andsharing of information on both a personal and task level. They feel good about beingpart of an effective group.The major drawback of the norming stage is that members may begin to fear theinevitable future breakup of the group; they may resist change of any sort. ❚❘ 91STAGE 4: PERFORMINGThe Performing stage is not reached by all groups. If group members are able to evolveto stage four, their capacity, range, and depth of personal relations expand to trueinterdependence. In this stage, people can work singly, in subgroups, or as a total unitwith equal facility. Their roles and authorities dynamically adjust to the changing needsof the group and individuals. Stage four is marked by interdependence in personalrelations and problem solving in the realm of task functions. By now, the group shouldbe most productive. Individual members have become selfassuring, and the need forgroup approval is past. Members are both highly task oriented and highly peopleoriented. There is unity: group identity is complete, group morale is high, and grouployalty is intense. The task function becomes genuine problem solving, leading towardoptimal solutions and optimum group development. There is support forexperimentation in solving problems and an emphasis on achievement. The overall goalis productivity through problem solving and work.STAGE 5: ADJOURNINGTuckman’s final stage, Adjourning, involves the termination of task behaviors anddisengagement from relationships. A planned conclusion usually includes recognitionfor participation and achievement and an opportunity for members to say personalgoodbyes. Concluding a group can create some apprehension—in effect, a minor crisis.The termination of the group is a regressive movement from giving up control to givingup inclusion in the group. The most effective interventions in this stage are those thatfacilitate task termination and the disengagement process.APPLICATIONS OF THE MODELFacilitators must be sensitive to the needs of group members in various stages of groupdevelopment. By referring to this model, a facilitator can gain some insight into theinevitable stages through which a group must pass before attaining the benefits of stagefour. This insight is useful both in planning grouplearning situations and for monitoringa group’s progress while it is in session.As a tool to facilitate group communication and development, the model is mosteffective at stage three of a group’s development. At this point, the members haveexperienced stages one and two and are in a receptive mode to internalize theimplications of stage four. The model provides them with a goal they can visualize andwork toward. Paying earnest attention to strategies for reaching stage four can facilitatethe movement to that stage.If the concepts of the model are presented when a group is in stage one, they mayfall on deaf ears, receiving only polite attention. If presented in stage two, the conceptsbecome food for conflicts or are ground into oblivion by the process of organization. Atstage four, the model is unnecessary.92 ❘❚ REFERENCESCharrier, G.O. (1974). Cog’s ladder: A model of group development. In J.W. Pfeiffer & J.E. Jones (Eds.), The1974 annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Cooke, P., & Widdis, W. (1988). Guidelines for interventions in groups. Unpublished manuscript.Tuckman, B.W., & Jensen, M.A.C. (1977, December) Stages of smallgroup development revisited. Group &Organization Studies, 2(4), 419427.SOURCESJones, J.E. (1973). A model of group development. In J.E. Jones & J.W. Pfeiffer (Eds.), The l973 annual handbookfor group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Jones, J.E. (1974). Group development: A graphic analysis. In J.W. Pfeiffer & J.E. Jones (Eds.), A handbook ofstructured experiences for human relations training (Vol. II, rev.). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Pfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Presentation and evaluation skills in human resource development (UATTSeries, Vol. 7). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 93TuckmanFormingStormingNormingPerformingAdjourning94 ❘❚ ❚❘ GROUP FUNCTIONSThere are three basic functions that consume a group’s time and energy: task,interaction, and selforientation. Boshear and Albrecht (1977) adapted the work ofBernard Bass (1962) to incorporate the concepts of direct and indirect activities thataffect the group process. In any group, the time and energies of the members may beconsidered to be directed toward one of three basic functions:1. Taskoriented behavior is aimed at accomplishing the objectives of the group.These objectives might be called “work”; they include things such as developinggoals, requesting facts, offering information, clarifying issues, seekingconsensus, or specific work such as writing, building, manufacturing, orrepairing. Task objectives also could be called “play”; this would include thingssuch as skiing, walking, fishing, camping, or participating in a sport.2. Interactionoriented activities relate to the group process—the operation of thegroup as a group. Behaviors that might indicate attention to interaction areencouraging, expressing feelings, attempting to reconcile disagreements,compromising for the benefit of the group, attempting to keep communicationchannels open, and setting or applying standards for group performance.3. Selforiented activities relate to meeting individual needs rather than helping thegroup in its task. These behaviors might include emphasizing personal issues,concerns, desires, and needs; dominating the discussion; interrupting others;wasting time; not listening; and pouting. Selforiented activities may or may notbe helpful to the taskoriented or interactionoriented functions of the group.DIRECT AND INDIRECT ACTIVITIESThe activities of the individual members in relation to the three basic functions may bedirect or indirect. In direct behavior, there is agreement between the apparent reason fora member’s behavior and the real reason. Indirect behavior is motivated by a reason themember does not reveal to the group. Such covert motives often are called “hiddenagendas” because they are not on the open, shared agenda of the group. For example, ifgroup members support an idea simply because they think it is a good one, they areengaging in direct behavior. If, however, they support the idea as a way to gain favorwith the person who introduced the idea, they are engaging in indirect behavior.The figure at the end of this article shows the relationship of the concepts and therange of possibilities for group functioning.Each group has its own characteristic way of performing the three basic functions.In a “closed” group, the primary direct activities are restricted to taskoriented functions. ❚❘ 95The members give direct attention to interactionoriented functions only if they arenecessary to the task. For example, a certain amount of social behavior is allowed toenable members to get acquainted, provided that it does not go on too long. Personalissues or selforiented behaviors are discouraged.In contrast to closed groups, other groups have norms that are more tolerant ofinteractionoriented and selforiented behaviors. The selforientation of the members iseven the primary focus of some groups in which interaction issues are dealt with only tothe extent that they do not interfere with the personal needs of the individual members.The group either has no task or is so enmeshed in personal issues that the task receivesno direct attention.USE OF THE CONCEPTThis conceptual framework is useful in a group’s effort to establish and maintain itsnorms and plan its expenditure of resources. It also can be used to facilitate a group’sability to observe and monitor its own processes.REFERENCEBass, B.M. (1962). Manual for orientation inventory. Palo Alto, CA: Consulting Psychologists Press.SOURCEBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.Direct and Indirect IndividualBehavior in Group FunctionsSubtle attempts to pushpersonal projects or tosabotage group effortsOpen participation inthe work, play, etc.,activities of the groupHidden agreements withother group membersSuppression or avoidanceof interpersonal issuesPersonal desires, needs,and objectives kept privateDisruptive attemptsto get attentionOpen confrontation ofinterpersonal issuesOpen disclosure ofpersonal needs, desires,etc., for group attentionIndirect DirectTASKINTERACTIONSELFINDIVIDUAL BEHAVIORGROUP FUNCTION ❚❘ 97❚❘ GROUP MEMBER ROLESAccording to Benne and Sheats (1948), group training frequently assumes that leadersare responsible for the success of a group. Consequently, training often focusesexcessively on the role of the group leader. Benne and Sheats reason that if groups arecomposed of both leaders and members, then an overemphasis on group leadershipneglects the relative importance of the roles enacted by group members. Members andleaders jointly share responsibility for group success.Benne and Sheats classify group member roles under three major headings: taskroles, building and maintenance roles, and individual roles.TASK ROLESTask roles center around getting the job done, the content of the group’s activities, andwhat the group accomplishes. Task roles enacted by group members include:■ initiatorcontributor■ information seeker■ opinion seeker■ information giver■ opinion giver■ elaborator■ coordinator■ orienter■ evaluatorcritic■ energizer■ procedural technician■ recorderBUILDING AND MAINTENANCE ROLESBuilding and maintenance roles evidence concern about group process and how tasksare done. Building and maintenance roles include:■ encourager■ harmonizer98 ❘❚ ■ compromiser■ gatekeeper and expediter■ standard setter or ego ideal■ group observer and commentator■ followerINDIVIDUAL ROLESIndividual roles have to do with the ways in which group members satisfy theirindividual, personal needs; they do not necessarily relate to group accomplishment.Individual roles include:■ aggressor■ blocker■ recognition seeker■ selfconfessor■ playboy■ dominator■ help seeker■ specialinterest pleaderBenne and Sheats maintain that all members’ roles are functional and all are necessaryfor group success. However, different roles are required at different stages of groupdevelopment, and not all roles are required at all times. For example, the mixture anddistribution of taskrole requirements are functions of task progress; the distribution ofbuilding and maintenance roles are functions of group maturity; and individual roles arefunctions of individual maturity. For example, task roles that seek and give informationprobably would be more functional in early stages of task definition than would theevaluatorcritic or procedural technician roles; the standard setter or ego ideal wouldlikely be more functional as the group matured to levels more accepting of higherstandards. The occurrence of individually focused roles will be significantly morenoticeable as the group matures.Each role contributes to group functioning and each hinders group functioning insome manner. An overemphasis on task roles may require counterbalancing by buildingand maintenance activities; an overemphasis on individual roles may require a shift totask and/or building and maintenance roles if the group is to function optimally.Benne and Sheats suggest that it is no longer appropriate to look only to groupleaders as the source of group quality and productivity. Members, as well as leaders, areultimately responsible for group success. Thus, the development of diagnostic skills to ❚❘ 99assess group role behavior as well as the group members’ ability to enact a variety ofroles can significantly increase a group’s potential for quality and productivity.REFERENCESBenne, K.D., & Sheats, P. (1948). Functional roles of group members. Journal of Social Issues, 4(2), 4149.Benne, K.D., & Sheats, P. (1951). Functional roles of group members. Human Relations and Curriculum Change,pp. 98104.Task Roles Building andMaintenance Roles Individual Rolesinitiatorcontributorinformation seekeropinion seekerinformation giveropinion giverelaboratorcoordinatororienterevaluatorcriticenergizerprocedural technicianrecorderencouragerharmonizercompromisergatekeeper and expediterstandard setter or ego idealgroup observer and commentatorfolloweraggressorblockerrecognition seekerselfconfessorplayboydominatorhelp seekerspecialinterest pleader ❚❘ 101❚❘ GROUP STRUCTURE AND PROCESSEric Berne (1963) developed the group structure and process model as a result of hisstudies of group dynamics. The model identifies the major internal relationships thatexist within all groups. The figure at the end of this article depicts a simplifiedrepresentation of Berne’s concepts.GROUP SPACEBerne uses the term group space to denote both the physical space that the groupoccupies and the abstract, psychological space that can be thought of as the group’s“identity.” Groups identify, at least subjectively, both their physical and psychologicalboundaries. The group’s physical space might be a conference room, a house, a clubroom, or any other area that is perceived as belonging to the group, either temporarily orpermanently. Psychological boundaries are not as distinct, but some externalpsychological boundary is drawn between members and nonmembers of the group.Everything outside the group space is labeled the external environment.Major internal boundaries exist within the group space to separate the group’smembers from its leaders. Major internal boundaries may or may not be reflected in thegroup’s physical arrangement, but they do exist conceptually at all times. Themembership region is made up of all the members of the group. The physical andconceptual differences that distinguish each member are known as the minor internalboundaries.Within the conceptual framework of the group space, Berne (1963) identifies threeforces that may place demands on a group’s resources:1. The major group process consists of the interactions between members andleaders. Support for or challenge to leaders is a part of the major group process.Support and challenge frequently occur simultaneously because some memberssupport while others challenge leaders’ credibility, authority, or actions.2. The minor group process consists of the interactions between group members.“Minor” refers to the importance of these interactions to the whole group; theymay not seem minor to the people involved. Minor internal processes include allthe interactions that take place between members as they establish and maintainthe relationships that allow the group to continue to exist.3. The external group process consists of those areas in which the group interactswith its external environment. External processes may be routine or emergency,active or reactive. For example, a work group may give a routine progress report102 ❘❚ to a person who is not part of the group, or an existing group suddenly may beconfronted with an external intrusion.Berne hypothesizes that group cohesion is a force that operates to maintain theorderly existence of a group. He believed that group cohesion can be measured by thegroup’s ability to work against opposition and successfully overcome external pressureand internal agitation.The separation of the leadership region and the membership region does not implythat specific people always can be fitted into one region or another. The group structureand process model is more like a group snapshot than a group documentation. Themodel simply depicts a group’s leader and members at a particular point in time. Theleadership region also may be occupied by more than one person. In families, forexample, the leadership region may be occupied by two parents.USE OF THE MODELThe group structure and process model presents abstract concepts yet has many directapplications to everyday problems. For example, the model is an effective aid inproblem solving because it points out how work groups’ effectiveness can be eroded byinfighting and by interorganizational competition. The model also can provide insightinto the dynamics of inclusion versus exclusion and of leaders versus members.REFERENCEBerne, E. (1963). The structure and dynamics of organizations and groups. New York: Grove Press.SOURCEBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company. ❚❘ 103Group Structure and Process Adapted from Berne, 1963.104 ❘❚ ❚❘ HILL INTERACTION MATRIX (HIM)The Hill Interaction Matrix (HIM) emerged as William Fawcett Hill (1965, 1973) wasdeveloping an instrument to measure group interaction styles. The HIM is acomprehensive method for thinking about and discussing group characteristics. Itdescribes and categorizes group interactions from two perspectives, content/style andwork/style.CONTENT/STYLEIn classifying the subjects of group interactions, Hill identifies four typical categories:topics, group, personal, and relationship. The first two categories are oriented towardnonmembers, and the second two are oriented toward members. The topics categoryrefers to subjects of general interest that are external to the group or the members. Thegroup content includes interactions that have the group and the group processes assubjects. An interaction with one of the members as the subject would be categorized aspersonal content. The relationship category covers interactions between group members.WORK/STYLEThe work style of a group is divided into four categories: conventional, assertive,speculative, and confrontive. Hill considers conventional and assertive to be preworkstyles, and speculative and confrontive represent the work itself. The figure at the end ofthis article illustrates the two dimensions of group interaction—content and workstyle—in matrix form. The workstyle dimension will be used to discuss the nature of theintersections.1. Conventional. In the conventional mode, the group members hold fast topatterned and socially acceptable behaviors. Topical discussions are general,concerning subjects about which most members can agree or, at least, beobjective. When the group is the subject, conversation may include operationalinformation, such as meeting times and places, or social discussions about thegroup and its activities. If the members become personal, their talk is restrictedto hobbies, likes, dislikes, general history, etc. The relationships discussed arevery superficial, supportive, and flattering to the individuals.2. Assertive. The assertive style is a pseudoconfrontation style. Although the groupmembers may challenge one another, they do not do so for the purpose ofseeking or giving help; they merely are acting out roles. Topical conversationsinvolve gripes about the establishment, the government, the price of food, etc.Discussion about the group is critical and nonconstructive. When group members ❚❘ 105become personal in the assertive style, they brag, show off, complain, orotherwise attempt to set themselves apart from the other group members.Relationships frequently are acted out or discussed in an exaggerated manner,either positively or negatively.3. Speculative. The speculative style characterizes the cognitive work of the groupmembers. It involves asking and answering questions and forming hypotheses.This style represents the intellectual processing of data and experiences. Topicaldiscussions involve subjects relevant to group issues, such as behavioral theories.The group process is evaluated from a critical but constructive position, and thegroup seeks methods and strategies for improvement. Personal issues ofmembers are examined for causation, consequences, alternatives, etc.Relationships are analyzed and evaluated for their importance or impact on theindividual members.4. Confrontive. Confrontation involves exposing oneself to personal risk, seekingand giving help in real problem areas, and making contact with others on vitalissues. Topical issues in the confrontive mode are fully explored to understandall relevant meaning for the participants. In the confrontive style, groupprocesses that have been consciously or unconsciously avoided are examined.Personal concerns of the group members are explored in depth to separate thereal underlying issues from the surface distortions. The relationships betweenmembers are the subject of reality testing—looking behind assumptions andexpectations to discover actual relationship issues.Hill defines the first two styles, conventional and assertive, as “prework” becausethey represent the group’s avoidance or pseudoconfrontation of issues instead of itsactual engagement of the issues cognitively in the speculative style or experientially inthe confrontive mode.Over the duration of its existence, a group may engage in all the work styles andrange over all the content areas. If a large proportion of the group time is devoted to onestyle or content area, it may be referred to as the group’s style.One version of the HIM includes an additional work style called responsive. It ischaracterized by reluctant group members whose primary interactions are to respondminimally to group leader interventions. It was not included in this discussion because itis usually not encountered in learning situations; it is observed primarily in therapygroups.USE OF THE HIMThe HIM can be very beneficial to a group that is evaluating and monitoring its ownbehavior. It portrays a wide range of behaviors as possible options for the group,allowing members to conclude or adopt strategies that are most consistent with theirobjectives.106 ❘❚ Not only does the model focus on characteristic behavior for the total group, it alsolends itself to analysis of individual behavior. Group members can use the vocabulary ofthe model in articulating their fears, concerns, or frustrations. Even a subjectivepositioning of individualmember behavior within the HIM framework can clarify thereasons for misunderstandings and conflict between members.Hill states that there is a deliberate value system in the arrangement of the contentand workstyle categories. The categories are arranged from left to right and from top tobottom in ascending order of their contribution to growth—as Hill sees it. When thisvalue judgment is observed by group members in the presentation of the model, it iseasily dealt with and does not seem to affect the utility of the model.REFERENCESHill, W.F. (1965). Hill interaction matrix (HIM). Pomona, CA: California State Polytechnic University.Hill, W.F. (1973). Hill interaction matrix (HIM): Conceptual framework for understanding groups. ln J.E. Jones &J.W. Pfeiffer (Eds.), The 1973 annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.SOURCEBoshear, W.C., & Albrecht, K.G. (1977). Understanding people: Models and concepts. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.WORK STYLEPREWORK WORKAdapted with permission from W.F. Hill (1973)HILL Interaction Matrix (HIM)108 ❘❚ ❚❘ IDENTIFYING ROLES OF GROUP MEMBERSAll interactions within a group either help the group to accomplish its task, help thegroup to maintain itself, or do not serve any group function. The memberrolesviewpoint of group development implies that a group needs the participation ofmembers in both task and groupbuilding/maintenance areas if it is to grow and becomefully productive. As stated by Dimock (1987), all group participation can be classified interms of functions or roles, as follows:Task Roles1. Defining problems 4. Seeking opinions2. Seeking information 5. Giving opinions3. Giving information 6. Testing feasibilityGroup Building/Maintenance Roles7. Coordinating 10. Supportingencouraging8. Mediatingharmonizing 11. Following9. OrientingfacilitatingIndividual Roles (nonfunctional)12. Blocking 14. Digressing13. Out of fieldNot only does a group need both task and maintenance functions, but it needsappropriate functions at the right time. When a football team is not functioning well, ananalysis is made of the different positions. All functions (positions and roles) arecoordinated. But in a nonprofessional group, members may serve roles or functions ofwhich the group is not aware or they may not be fulfilling any roles, and the membersmay not be aware of these omissions. A review of the roles taken in the group comparedto the roles that a group requires (such as the eleven listed previously) can point out thegaps. Filling the gaps requires recognition of the importance of these roles and theability of the members to fulfill these roles when needed. The latter is called roleflexibility and may be the most valuable attribute of a group member.The extent to which the eleven essential functions are fulfilled becomes evidentthrough group observation. For example, it may become apparent that only two or threepeople are attempting to fill all member roles. This keeps other members from assumingresponsibility; they do not have the opportunity to develop or practice new roles or toutilize their existing skills. ❚❘ 109Once identified through observation and analysis, lack of role flexibility, inadequaterole distribution, and missing role functions can be improved through the agreement ofgroup members to share and practice the needed roles in the group.Giving major attention to task roles produces lower output (productivity)than giving attention to both task and group roles.Giving major attention to task roles produces lower output (productivity) thangiving attention to both task and group roles. Groups, during their initial stages ofdevelopment, tend to be primarily task oriented. Almost all the participation is at thetask level (e.g., giving opinions and giving information). The development of the group,as well as its productivity, is limited unless it can move into the groupbuilding area.Mature groups show a reasonable balance of task and group roles. Individual rolesincrease in the early stages of development and drop off during the mature stage. In fact,the development of a group can be charted by comparing the percentage of task roles togroupbuilding and nonfunctional roles. The early stages are characterized by a highproportion of task roles with individual roles growing in number. As growth progresses,group roles rise and individual roles drop off.A group has to acquire a balance of task and group functions if it is to utilize all itspotential as a group. Typically, groups need help in learning groupbuilding roles.110 ❘❚ GUIDES TO OBSERVING ROLES OF GROUP MEMBERSDimock’s observation tool encourages descriptions of individual behavior and providesspecific feedback to each member. Group members find practicing different roles andgetting feedback on the practice very useful in developing a larger repertoire of rolesand in gaining skill and comfort in using them.To make a complete record of a group meeting using this guide is a fulltime joband removes the observer from participating. To allow for participantobservers, a fiveminute sample can be recorded every fifteen or twenty minutes. It is best if the timesamples are determined ahead of time to increase the likelihood of their being a crosssection of the total meeting. Observing the roles of group members compliments videorecording of a group, as both forms of observation provide specific feedback toindividuals. This activity is particularly useful for training purposes when the goal ispersonal skill development.A few technical problems may arise in using this observation guide. An individualmay take more than one role as he or she speaks, and it often is difficult to decide howto categorize the input. For example, a member may begin by agreeing and building on aprevious speaker’s idea but end up making a new proposal. This participation could becategorized as “supportingencouraging” or “gives opinions.” Although it is possible tolist this contribution under both categories, Dimock suggests that it be listed under thechief message it left with the group. In this case, that would be “gives opinions,”because a new proposal has more impact than general agreement. When in doubt, theobserver can list both categories; in the long run, the group profile will look pretty muchthe same.ROLES OF GROUP MEMBERS DEFINITION SHEETTask Functions1. Defines problems: group problem is defined; overall purpose of group isoutlined.2. Seeks information: requests factual information about group problem ormethods of procedure; asks for clarification of suggestions.3. Gives information: offers information about group problem or methods to beused; clarifies a suggestion.4. Seeks opinions: asks for the opinions of others relevant to discussion.5. Gives opinions: states beliefs or opinions relevant to discussion.6. Tests feasibility: questions reality, checks practicality of suggested solutions. ❚❘ 111GroupBuilding and Maintenance Functions7. Coordinates: clarifies a statement and relates it to another statement in such away as to bring them together. Reviews proposed alternatives.8. Mediatesharmonizes: intercedes in disputes or disagreements and attempts toreconcile them. Highlights similar views.9. Orientsfacilitates: keeps group on track, points out deviations from agreedonprocedures or direction of group discussion. Helps group process; proposesprocedures to make group more effective.10. Supportsencourages: expresses approval of others’ suggestions; is warm andresponsive to others’ ideas.11. Follows: goes along with the movement of the group; accepts ideas of others;expresses agreement.Individual Functions12. Blocks: interferes with the progress of the group by arguing, resisting, anddisagreeing beyond reason. Returns to “dead” issues later.13. Withdraws: withdraws from discussion; daydreams; does something else;whispers to others; leaves room; etc.14. Digresses: gets off the subject; leads discussion in personally oriented directionor turns a brief statement into a long, nebulous speech.It is more difficult to categorize an intervention when its true meaning iscamouflaged, especially if it is a fairly long speech. Although the content of theparticipation should be taken at face value and categorized accordingly, Dimocksuggests that when in doubt, either list it as giving opinions or just omit it from therecord. Often, new observers tend to puzzle over the intervention for a bit; by then thenext speaker may say something that influences the rating. For example, if it is not clearwhether Tom is supporting a previous idea, giving information about it, or seekingothers’ opinions about it, and the next speaker says, “Yes, I, too, agree that this wouldmake sense and that we should do it,” there may be a tendency to categorize Tom asgiving opinions (agreement) or supportingencouraging. The rule of thumb here is to trynot to be influenced by a following statement in categorizing the previous one.SOURCEDimock, H.G. (1987). Groups: Leadership and group development. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.112 ❘❚ Defines problemSeeks informationGives informationSeeks opinionsGives opinionsTests feasibilityCoordinatingMediatingharmonizingOrientingfacilitatingSupportingencouragingFollowingBlockingOut of fieldDigressingTASK ROLESGROUP BUILDINGAND MAINTENANCEROLESINDIVIDUAL ROLESROLES OF GROUP MEMBERSPut initials of each member at top of each column.If a general, rather than individual, picture of the group is desired, the first column can be used to showthe total times that function was taken by any group member. This would then show what functions werebeing overplayed and underplayed in the group. ❚❘ 113❚❘ INTERACTION PROCESS ANALYSIS (IPA)In the late 1940s, Robert Freed Bales and a few of his colleagues at HarvardUniversity’s Laboratory of Social Relations became concerned that the methods beingused to categorize the behavior of people in small groups were overly specialized and,consequently, held little relevance beyond the research population being studied. Thepractice of creating specialized lists of behavioral categories for each particular kind ofgroup studied created major problems. First, the categorization of group behavior wasclosely tied to the research setting and often not applicable to other groups. Second, withgroupspecific categories, normative data allowing for the comparison of differentgroups were unavailable. Third, extensive training of observers was required with eachnew group studied.Interaction Process Analysis (IPA) represents an attempt by Bales (1950) todevelop a general classification of smallgroup behavior that is useful for describing thedynamics of people interacting in groups. Originally conceptualized as a vehicle to aidin the development of a larger body of knowledge suitable for the analysis of largesocial systems, IPA evolved into one of the early methods of describing smallgroupprocess.DEFINING A GROUPAccording to Bales, a group can be any number of persons (usually two to twenty) whointeract, facetoface, and perceive one another as group members. Bales observes thatsmall groups, regardless of their task orientations, characteristically are similar in themanner in which members interact with and remember one another. Bales categorizesthese behaviors as “interaction” or “process” behaviors and hypothesizes that similarbehaviors appear in all small groups regardless of task (content) concerns. Thus, forBales, the process of group interaction, exclusive of task concerns, presented the basisfor a standardized, generalpurpose framework for group analysis.BEHAVIORAL CATEGORIESBales identifies and categorizes twelve initiating and response behaviors that he believeswill comprehensively describe social interaction within groups. The first set ofcategories includes behaviors that exert positive influences on the social and emotionalaspects of group interaction. The second set of categories includes behaviors that exertinfluence on task accomplishment and are socially/emotionally neutral. The third set ofcategories includes behaviors that exert negative influence on social and emotionalaspects of group interaction.114 ❘❚ Social/Emotional (Positive)1. Shows solidarity. Behaviors in category one confirm the fellowship arising froma common responsibility or interest among group members. Included in categoryone are acts that demonstrate solidarity and cohesion among members, raise thestatus of another member, or give help and rewards. For example, greetings,handshakes, friendly gestures, use of first names, praise, encouragement, sincerecompliments, offers of assistance, consolation, support, and comfort all areconsidered acts of solidarity.2. Shows tension release. Included in category two are behaviors that indicate aspontaneous relief of tension. For example, friendly jokes, cheerfulness, delight,joy, positive responses to joking, clowning, playfulness, smiles, chuckling, andnonaggressive horseplay all are viewed as tensionreducing mechanisms.3. Agrees. Categorythree behaviors indicate agreement, understanding,acceptance, and compliance. Examples are acts that indicate confirmation oraffirmation, commitment to carry out instructions or responsibilities, andnondefensive acceptance of criticism. Indicators of categorythree behaviorinclude body language as well as overt acts.Task (Socially/Emotionally Neutral)4. Gives suggestions. Included in category four are behaviors that suggest concreteways of attaining group goals while allowing for autonomy of others. Examplesare giving suggestions, giving directions, proposing solutions, indicating how tostart a task, and indicating how to cope with a problem or issue.5. Gives opinions. Category five includes acts that indicate thoughtinprogress.For example, thinking, reasoning, analyzing, evaluating, expressing opinions orfeelings, generating and testing hypotheses, and objective attempts to understandthe behavior of oneself and others are considered thoughtinprogress activities.6. Gives orientation. Categorysix behaviors are intended to focus group attentionand prepare others to receive information or communication. Examples includeorientation of new and existing members, giving information, clarifying,repeating, clearing of the throat, calling someone by name, maintaining eyecontact, integrating new members, and stating facts alluding to outer or innersituations. Such behaviors say, “Get ready, here it comes.”7. Asks for orientation. Behaviors that fall into category seven are those that seekadditional information and indicate that a member does not have sufficientknowledge to support action. Examples are making efforts to obtain factualinformation, asking for information, indicating confusion or uncertaintypertaining to the group’s goals or tasks, and appearing disoriented. ❚❘ 1158. Asks for opinion. Included in category eight are behaviors that encourage astatement or reaction on the part of another without limiting the response.Requests for an opinion, evaluation, analysis, inferential interpretation, orexpression of feeling are examples of asking for opinion. Such requests oftentake the form of “Tell me more about . . .”; “How do you feel about . . . ?”; or “Iwonder if . . . .”9. Asks for suggestions. Included in category nine are behaviors that implicitly orexplicitly solicit ideas regarding how the group is to proceed. Category seven ischaracterized by matteroffact, lowemotionality requests, such as requests forsuggestions, directions, or ideas about how to proceed. Requests in category nineoften take the form of “What should we talk about?” or “How should weproceed?”Social/Emotional (Negative)10. Disagrees. Category ten includes behaviors that indicate disagreement or a noncommitted attitude. Category ten is characterized by passive rejection, failing topay attention, skepticism, excessive caution, aloofness, playing “hard to please,”failing to provide information or to complete tasks, procrastinating, ignoringrequests or complaints, and defending or restating an original positionexcessively.11. Shows tension. Behaviors assigned to category eleven indicate increased tensionand stress within the group. Such behaviors include requests made withnoticeable emotionality, body language that suggests shame or guilt, excessiveneed for support, craving for affection, expressions of frustration, indications ofperceived failure, apathy, psychological withdrawal, lack of attention, boredom,anxiety, hesitation in speech, and speechlessness.12. Shows antagonism. Categorytwelve behaviors indicate antagonism or hostilityand tend to minimize the status of other group members. Category twelveincludes attempts to defend and assert a personal position, attempts to controland regulate others, attempts to resist supervision and direction by others, andattempts to supervise and direct others in a manner that appears to be arbitrary orauthoritarian. Examples are resisting control, griping, harassing others,interrupting, finishing sentences for others, covering up deficiencies, being onguard, seeking status, attempting to vindicate oneself, boasting, throwing tempertantrums, displaying jealousy, and being belligerent.SCORINGThe importance that Bales placed on standardized procedures for group observation ledhim to the development of a quantitatively based system for systematically observingand scoring group behavior. Bales believed that if his methods were to lead the way in116 ❘❚ standardizing group observation, not only must behavioral categories be standardized,but processes for observing group interaction must be standard as well. Mostimportantly, Bales thought that observers must be trained to understand and recognize aswell as record group observations.Once an observer has mastered the complexities of the behavioral categories, groupobservation becomes a matter of the observer sitting down with a printed set ofcategories (as shown in the figure) and recording the behavior as it occurs.To record group processes, group members are each assigned a number, andbehavior is recorded by putting the number of the person speaking and the number of theperson spoken to next to the appropriate category in the Interaction Matrix. For example,the request for information from person 1 directed at person 2 would be recorded next tocategory seven as “12” (see figure). The response from person 2 directed to person 1would be recorded next to category six as “21.” All subsequent initiation and responsebehaviors would then be recorded in a similar manner.Interaction MatrixSocioEmotional (Positive)1. Shows Solidarity2. Shows Tension Release3. AgreesTask (SocioEmotional Neutral)4. Gives Suggestions5. Gives Opinion6. Gives Orientation 127. Asks for Orientation 218. Asks for Opinion9. Asks for SuggestionsSocioEmotional (Negative)10. Disagrees11. Shows Tension12. Shows Antagonism ❚❘ 117IMPLICATIONSIPA data yield several interpretive possibilities based on the relationship betweenbehavioral categories. As discussed previously, group behaviors are classified accordingto three behavioral dimensions: social/emotional (positive), task (neutral), andsocial/emotional (negative). The preferred pattern of interaction for healthy, fullyfunctioning groups is one of balance and shifting emphasis between social/emotionaland task concerns. When excessive attention is placed on task, then social/emotionalconcerns are minimized and tension is created in the social/emotional arena. Emphasiswould need to shift to social/emotional areas in order to bring the group to a healthystate of equilibrium. Likewise, excessive attention placed on social/emotional areaswould be likely to create tension related to task accomplishment and require a shift totask concerns. This systematic viewing of group process is probably the most powerfuloffering of Interaction Process Analysis.With categories six and seven as a starting point, there is a symmetrical relationshipbetween the top and bottom half of the IPA model. A second level of analysis makes useof the symmetrical relationship between categories. For example, category six pertainsto activities that are intended to focus attention and prepare others to receiveinformation. Category seven pertains to activities that seek additional knowledge andinformation. Thus, an examination of group activities in categories six and seven revealgroup functioning related to communication. Likewise, opinionseeking behavior incategory eight is counterbalanced by opiniongiving behavior in category five, and anexamination reveals group functioning related to evaluation. Similarly, categories nineand four attend to control issues; ten and three, to issues related to decisions; eleven andtwo, to issues related to reducing tension; and categories twelve and one address issuesrelated to reintegration.IPA also has been demonstrated to be useful in the analysis of group problemsolving processes. Categories one, two, and three; categories four, five, and six;categories seven, eight, and nine; and categories ten, eleven, and twelve, respectively,are associated with positive problemsolving responses (1,2,3), attempts to provideanswers (4,5,6), asking questions (7,8,9), and negative problemsolving responses(10,11,12). Within this framework, the problemsolving sequence is conceptualized asasking questions, attempts to provide answers, and positive and negative responses.SOURCEBales, R.F. (1950). Interaction process analysis: A method for the study of small groups. Reading, MA: AddisonWesley.118 ❘❚ ❚❘ MAJOR GROWTH PROCESSES IN GROUPSGroups exert powerful influences, and these pressures can be either beneficial ordetrimental to the welfare of their members. Many different types of groups can fosterthe growth of the individuals who comprise them. A combination of processes that canbe engendered in a group can create both the conditions for and the methods by whichmembers can learn about themselves in supportive ways.The five major growth processes that can be observed in groups are selfassessment,selfdisclosure, feedback, risk taking, and consensual validation. Each of these processeswill be examined separately, but it is important to remember that it is their interactionthat accounts for much of the immense potency of social interaction for shaping thebehavior of individuals. The goal in unleashing these processes is to assist individuals inmaking “wise” choices, based on three criteria: awareness of self, awareness of options,and willingness to take responsibility for consequences.It is important to note the interdependence of these processes, the centrality of selfassessment, and the importance of the trust condition to support each process. Althoughit is not necessary for these processes to be initiated in a given sequence, the one inwhich they will be discussed here roughly parallels the development of many groupsthat are formed for purposes such as personal growth or team building.SELFASSESSMENTThe core of personal learning is looking clearly at oneself. Unfortunately, our ability todistort information about ourselves is almost limitless. The key to individual growth inany effort that can be described as humanistic is selfassessment. The first criterion ofthe “wise” choice is selfawareness.In any group in which members are looking critically at themselves, there is thelikelihood that new insights will emerge. If the group exists to promote growth on thepart of its members, it needs to emphasize the need to relate what happens in the groupto individuals. The key questions often are: “Who am I?,” “What am I up to?,” “Wheream I going?,” and “What difference does it make anyway?”The concept that an individual has about self is a remarkably stable aspect ofpersonality. It has a profound effect on how the person behaves or chooses not tobehave. Our selfconcepts come from “significant others,” usually in the formativeyears. Sometimes what we have learned about ourselves from those whom we havetrusted shapes large parts of our lives. We all have selfconcepts, although we may notbe aware of what they are. We defend ourselves when we feel threatened and we openourselves to learning in a hightrust situation. It is as though the selfconcept issurrounded by a membrane that is thick under threat and permeable with trust. ❚❘ 119In order for group members to be able to see themselves more clearly, additionalprocesses must be followed. Interacting with others can provide new data about oneself.SELFDISCLOSURETalking about oneself in a group setting is just one form of disclosure and is apotentially useful way of discovering patterns. Sharing feelings with others can be bothcathartic and enlightening. We mediate our selfdisclosure by choosing what to reveal,in accordance with our perceptions of what is appropriate in the situation. Group normscan have a significant effect on this. We hold back less in an atmosphere of trust than wedo when we feel threatened.FEEDBACKThe third core growth process is feedback, or the sharing of interpersonal perceptionsand reactions. We give feedback by telling others how their behavior affects us. Thisprocess greatly affects our selfconcepts. Feedback from someone one knows and trustshas even more effect than feedback from a stranger or someone whom one mistrusts. Ina group situation, there is the potential for both constructive and destructive feedback.Because the process is so powerful—especially when it is requested—it can result in anarrowing of one’s choices as well as a clearer understanding of oneself.Feedback needs to be managed well. When an individual solicits concrete,descriptive statements from others about the effects of that individual’s behavior, thatperson’s selfconcept is probably the most permeable. If the feedback is targeted towardthe growth goals of the individual, the data are likely to be useful. However, the processis risky.RISK TAKINGSome areas of the self are not directly accessible through reflection or discussion. Onemust take risks to reach them. Trying new ways of behaving can help us to discoverparts of ourselves that we may have been afraid to explore and that may disconfirmcertain aspects of our selfconcepts. Obviously, some risks are foolish (the probability ofnegative outcomes is too high) and others have little growth potential (failure isunlikely). Trying out new behavior in a group can not only expand one’s responserepertoire, but also can disclose new parts of oneself.If the group has high mutual trust, members are likely to receive support forexperimenting with behavior, especially if they announce what they are doing. This isone of the keys to building trust. Talking about trust does not instill confidence; thatcomes from working together on commonly agreedon objectives. The experience ofsuccess and of validated expectations of one another creates a feeling of safety.120 ❘❚ CONSENSUAL VALIDATIONFeedback that contains themes or common threads is more powerful than feedback thatis different from each individual. One develops the idea that one is loveable (or stupid,or competent) by hearing that message from more than one person whom one trusts.This does not, by the way, mean that the feedback is accurate, but the consensus“validates” the information and increases the chances that one will internalize thecharacterization.Consensual validation is one of the most powerful processes that occur in groups. Itcan serve as a mechanism for “correcting” one’s selfconcept, for counteracting one’stendency to practice selfdeception. The practical implication for growth is that we cancompare other’s perceptions of and reactions to us and look for commonalities.IMPLICATIONS FOR WORK GROUPSIf it is desirable that individuals learn from their behavior on the job, it is necessary thatthey have opportunities to attempt new tasks, receive feedback, and experience supportand rewards for development. Norms of openness, solicitation of feedback andconfrontation, experimentation, and tolerance for varying perceptions must beestablished and maintained in the work group.It is, however, important to remember that work groups are put together primarilyto perform tasks that require the members’ cooperation, not primarily to supportindividual learning. Task primacy means that selfdisclosure, feedback, and risk takingneed to be encouraged only in relation to the tasks of the group.IMPLICATIONS FOR GROWTH GROUPSGrowth groups are assembled to provide data to individuals and to give them a place inwhich to try new ways of behaving. The major growth processes discussed earlier arethe principal vehicles for change, and these processes should be initiated deliberately.The facilitator can help to promote trust by modeling and encouraging others to engagein selfassessment, selfdisclosure, feedback, risk taking, and consensual validation.It follows that if one wants the individual to grow in selfawareness as aprecondition to making wise choices, one must ensure that the group mirrors the array ofdata sources in that person’s usual environment. The composition of the group isimportant: if there is too much homogeneity, the individual may not learn how otherkinds of people may react to him or her. Conversely, if the group is too heterogeneous,some individuals may experience anxiety about being “different” and may notparticipate fully. A good guideline is one of controlled variety: maximum differencewith the proviso that no person feels unable to identify with any other member. ❚❘ 121SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Presentation and evaluation skills in human resource development (UATTSeries, Vol. 7). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.122 ❘❚  SelfAssessment SelfDisclosure Feedback Risk Taking Consensual ValidationFive Major GrowthProcesses in Groups ❚❘ 123❚❘ MANAGING MEETINGSThe business meeting continues to gain importance in today’s organization. As moreorganizations exist for the sole purpose of processing information, more meetings arebeing held to discuss and to disseminate that information. Furthermore, the “realbusiness” of an organization often is conducted within a meeting. Statistics show thattypical managers spend approximately one quarter of their work days in meetings—meetings that often are dull, uninspiring, boring, or even without purpose.TYPES OF MEETINGSNicoll (1981) identifies eight types of meetings, each having a different purpose. It isimportant for everyone involved in a meeting to understand what kind of meeting he orshe is in.1. Informational meetings are held to disseminate data, facts, decisions, andpolicies that have been made at higher levels in the organization. Informationalmeetings are of three subtypes: (a) from supervisor to subordinate, in which theformer conveys information; (b) from subordinates to supervisor, in whichsubordinates convey information; and (c) interactional, in which information isshared.2. Validational meetings are held to announce decisions made by highermanagement and to gain commitment to implementing the decisions.3. Planning or strategizing meetings are held in order for the participants to createlongrange action plans for themselves. The outcome usually is a vision ormission and some sort of todo list.4. Problemsolving and decisionmaking meetings are similar to planning andstrategizing meetings except that the plans made are for the short term. The focusis on daytoday business rather than on longrange planning.5. Staff conferences are held to ensure the progress of action plans generated inplanning and problemsolving meetings. Progess reports are provided, theexpression of opinions is solicited, and individual actions are coordinated.6. Feedback and evaluation meetings are held to assess the progress of goals set inprevious planning or problemsolving meetings. The focus is on organizationalor personal performance.7. Training meetings are held to educate. The training typically focuses onbehavior, skills, or knowledge that will allow people to perform their duties moreeasily and effectively.124 ❘❚ 8. Celebrative meetings, which usually are social gettogethers rather thanstructured proceedings, allow participants to relax and to take pride in theiraccomplishments.PLANNING THE MEETINGMuch has been written on the management of meetings—how to make them moreinteresting, how to ensure equal participation by all group members, how to organize ameeting, and so on. Many meetings are problematic because of inadequate preparation.SchindlerRainman, Lippitt, and Cole (1988) list ten dimensions that all meetings havein common. These factors must be considered when planning a meeting.1. People. All meetings involve people. There may be two people or hundreds orthousands, depending on the purpose of the meeting. Meeting participants maydiffer in their familiarity with the proceedings or in their ages, ethnicbackgrounds, genders, attitudes, and values. These differences must beconsidered when planning a meeting.2. Purpose. All meetings have reasons for being. Sometimes these purposes—orhopedfor outcomes—are clearly stated and sometimes they are taken forgranted.3. Atmosphere or Climate. All meetings have an atmosphere or climate.Sometimes it just happens. More often, it is planned to ensure the kind ofatmosphere that will facilitate a productive meeting. The atmosphere is affectedby the physical surroundings; the arrangements; the room temperature; thepatterns of greeting, seating, and meeting people; and the patterns ofinvolvement or noninvolvement during the meeting. If some thought is given tothe climate, a meeting can have an atmosphere that is conducive to participationand productivity.4. Place and Space. Meetings are held in a space and a place, and meeting plannersmust consider the following: access to the space, size of the space, kinds ofmovable furniture available, acoustics, cost, availability of parking, relationshipbetween the space and the purpose of the meeting, equipment needed, lighting,temperature controls, and restroom facilities. These factors have much to do withthe way participants feel as they enter the meeting and the degree to which theycan comfortably and productively accomplish their business.5. Costs. Meetings have various types of costs. Some costs, such as the costs ofregular staff meetings, are considered standard operating expenses. Othermeetings are costly because room or equipment rental or other items must bepaid for. Paying the people who attend the meetings also must be taken intoaccount when assessing expenditures.6. Time Dimensions. All meetings have beginnings and endings, although theirlengths may vary greatly. Within the allotted time, usually there will be a ❚❘ 125planned sequence of events or agenda items. It is important to decide who willmake the time decisions and who will decide when the meeting will be held. Theperson who makes these decisions will need to consider factors such as thelength of time that it will take most participants to travel to and from themeeting.7. Prework. Some meetings are carefully planned beforehand; others just happen.One must think about and plan for the people who are coming: various ways toget them there, ways to make the meeting interesting, materials that will beneeded, and so on. A meeting’s productivity is directly related to the amount ofplanning that goes into the meeting.8. Plans, Program, and Agenda. Most meetings have an agenda; some are thoughtout beforehand, while others are not created until the start of the meeting. Adetailed, planned program or agenda, which can be shared by all participants, is avaluable addition to a meeting. When planning the agenda, it is important toconsider who will do the planning, to what degree the participants are involvedwith the planning, and the type and number of issues that can be dealt with in thetime available.9. Beginnings, Middles, and Endings. All meetings, whether they are one hour orseveral days in duration, can be examined in terms of beginnings, middles, andendings. Often, little thought is given to how the meeting will begin or end, mostof the focus being on the actual content (the middle of the meeting) and on thework to be done. Failure to plan the beginning and ending of a meeting can resultin an unproductive middle or in a lack of followthrough.10. FollowUp. After a meeting has ended, there usually is a need for some followup activity such as writing thankyou notes, implementing action items, payingbills, giving information to people who did not attend, making phone calls,recording minutes, and so on. The planning stage of any meeting should takethese followup activities into consideration.INPROCESS MEETING MANAGEMENTIn addition to more detailed meeting planning, managers are finding it necessary to paymore attention to the management of meeting participants. Every organization has ahierarchy; part is overt (job titles, designation of managers and subordinates, and so on),and part is unspoken. Within each group of people there tends to be a “pecking order,”even if the people technically are colleagues on the same rung of the hierarchical ladder.Some members act domineering: they are talkative, they tend to interrupt others, and soon. Less aggressive members may not feel comfortable challenging the dominantmember(s) and may remain silent for the duration of the meeting. This results in unevenparticipation, which often produces side effects such as boredom and stilted lines ofcommunication.126 ❘❚ Mosvick and Nelson (1987) identify eleven steps for ensuring effective decisionmaking in meetings. These items also are good tips for effective meeting management.1. Spend enough time stating and restating the initial question until everyone agreeson the problem or issue to be discussed.2. Solicit participants’ honest opinions at the outset of the meeting.3. Think of opinions as hypotheses; test them instead of arguing over them.4. Plan a method of testing opinions against reality, considering the issue and thegoal.5. Establish a rule that additional information given during the meeting must berelevant to the agreedon topic.6. Encourage disagreement and differences of opinions.7. Do not judge others’ opinions hastily. Learn to appreciate the diversity of others’points of view.8. Encourage meeting members’ commitment to resolving the issue wheneverpossible.9. Compromise as needed.10. Ask whether a decision is necessary. Remember that choosing to do nothing is alegitimate choice.11. Construct a process for feedback to find out whether the decision was successful.AVOIDING COMMON MEETING PITFALLSThe following are some dysfunctional patterns and behaviors that commonly are foundin meetings (Bradford, 1976):■ Vying for power, often by challenging the leader or by wooing a group ofsupporters, thus dividing the group;■ Joking and clowning excessively, which not only is a distraction but also maydisguise hostility;■ Failing to agree on the issue or problem;■ Arguing about others’ opinions or suggestions, which stifles the brainstormingprocess and can cause embarrassment or discomfort;■ Wandering off the topic at hand; and■ Forcing meeting members to answer to the chairperson (usually someone who ishigher on the organizational ladder than they are).Awareness of these traps can help the meeting manager to avoid them.Constructive, rather than punitive, confrontation is an effective technique for dealingwith many disruptive and dysfunctional meeting behaviors. A meeting leader who ❚❘ 127chooses to confront must be sure to discuss the behavior, not the person. More desirablebehaviors should be suggested in a direct but caring way. Jones (1980) suggests twoapproaches to dealing with disruptive meeting participants. The first approach (seeexamples below) requires the meeting leader to communicate directly with thedisruptive person.■ Turn a dominating person’s questions into statements, thus forcing the person totake responsibility for his or her opinions.■ Refuse to engage in a debate. Point out that debates have winners and losers;therefore, the desired winwin outcome is impossible.■ Suggest that the meeting leader and the disruptive person swap roles. This givesthe person a sense of what he or she is doing to the group.■ Using activelistening techniques, mirror the person’s feelings. For example,“You seem particularly upset today, particularly when I disagree with you.”■ Agree with the person’s need to be heard and to be supported.The second approach to dealing with disruptive meeting members that Jones (1980)suggests uses the other meeting participants as allies against the disruptive person. Someexamples are as follows.■ Ask the participants to establish norms that will discourage “You’re wrong, I’mright” thinking.■ Post all participant input anonymously on flip charts. This makes informationavailable to all and can lessen repetition.■ Break the participants into small groups, which immediately limits a dominatingperson’s sphere of influence. Give the groups a task that requires them to reachconsensus.UTILIZING THE MEETINGMANAGEMENT GUIDELINESMeeting leaders may find that the use of small groups can help to prevent theparticipants from falling into the common meeting traps. When people break into smallgroups to discuss an issue, less assertive persons often become more willing toparticipate. A small group is not as likely to wander off the subject as a large group.Because fewer people are competing for attention in a small group, members tend to feela stronger sense of commitment. Finally, small groups can diffuse aggressive members’tendency to dominate the conversation.Meeting leaders will find that their meetings will become more interesting, lively,and balanced as they follow the guidelines that have been presented in this article. Thecore points to remember are that all meeting participants must be treated equally; thathonesty must be the norm; and that all opinions must be encouraged and respected.128 ❘❚ REFERENCEMosvick, R.K., & Nelson, R.B. (1987). We’ve got to start meeting like this! A guide to successful business meetingmanagement. Glenview, IL: Scott, Foresman; San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.SOURCESBradford, L.P. (1976). Making meetings work: A guide for leaders and group members. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.Jones, J.E. (1980). Dealing with disruptive individuals in meetings. In J.W. Pfeiffer & J.E. Jones (Eds.), The 1980annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Nicoll, D.R. (1981). Meeting management. In J.E. Jones & J.W. Pfeiffer (Eds.), The 1981 annual handbook forgroup facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.SchindlerRainman, E., Lippitt, R., & Cole, J. (1988). Taking your meetings out of the doldrums (rev. ed.). SanDiego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 129130 ❘❚ ❚❘ A MODEL OF GROUPS:SYSTEMS THEORYIn The Human Group, George C. Homans defines a group as any number of people whofrequently interact with one another (p. 85). Every person belongs to a variety of groups:coworkers, families, classmates, congregations, clubs, and so on. Cliques, associations,gangs—all are groups. In addition, subgroups often can be demarcated when a groupcontains more than two members. For example, in a department of seven people in anorganization, there may be three subgroups: one subgroup of four, one subgroup ofthree, and two persons who have a closer friendship than is found among the membersof the other two subgroups.THE GROUP AS A SYSTEM FUNCTIONING IN AN ENVIRONMENTGroups have boundaries. They are exclusive, i.e., certain people belong to them and allothers do not. Groups tend to view others as outsiders and to resist changes inmembership and advances from others, which they interpret as intrusions. Homans callseverything and everyone that is not part of a group the environment. Obviously, groupsexist within their environments and cannot help but be affected by their environments.Groups can be thought of as systems or “organized wholes.” Homans compares agroup functioning in its environment to an organism surviving in its environment,simultaneously affecting and being affected by its surroundings. Thus, we see thatalthough a group may have a fixed membership, it must be flexible and adaptable inorder to survive in its everchanging environment.Homans defines a social system as “the activities, interactions, and sentiments ofthe group members, together with the mutual relations of these elements with oneanother during the time the group is active” (p. 87). Everything that is not part of thesocial system is part of the environment in which it exists. The environment influencesand affects groups in three ways: physically, technically, and socially.The physical environment consists of the actual surroundings in which the groupfunctions, the tools or objects that it employs, and so on. For a group of office workers,the physical environment may consist of the office building, offices, paper, computers,typewriters, and all the other objects in the workplace. Placement of workers (proximityof offices, etc.) also can contribute to a group’s formation.The technical environment consists of the “tools of the trade” and the particularmanner in which they are used by the group members. Accountants use addingmachines; members of a health club use weight machines, stationary bicycles, andsaunas. ❚❘ 131The social environment is more abstract than the physical or technicalenvironments. A group’s social environment encompasses the social norms of the group,the norms of the group’s surroundings, the organized systems of interrelating (e.g., theway in which a business functions), and so on. One group may have a warm, supportive,social environment; in another group, competition, lack of trust, and “backstabbing”may be accepted norms. To some extent, group members are responsible for sustainingthe social environment by reinforcing accepted and expected behavior, resisting change,and teaching new members “the way things work around here.”GROUP SURVIVAL: ADAPTABILITY OF THE EXTERNAL SYSTEMIn accordance with the phenomenon of “survival of the fittest” or natural selection, agroup must behave in a manner that will allow it to survive in its environment. Homansspecifies three elements of group behavior that must continually adapt and change topreserve the group: sentiment, activity, and interaction. The way in which these threeelements adapt to their environment is called the external system.The external system is cyclic; that is, it is a circular pattern of causeandeffect oraction/reaction that does not have a discernible beginning. The group continuallychanges in order to survive in its environment and as it changes, it imposes on theenvironment. In other words, not only does the group adapt to the environment, but theenvironment adapts to the group. It is impossible to say which came first, theenvironment or the group, because they simultaneously create each other.Within the external system, two components, sentiment and activity, areinterdependent. Sentiments can be defined as urges or motivations that compel one intoactivity to alleviate a feeling of need. Thirst can be classified as a sentiment, anddrinking can be labeled an activity.Sentiment and activity are applicable not only to current needs; they are alsopresent when a person anticipates a future need. In the previous example of thirst anddrinking, a person’s thirst is a current need, giving rise to the motivation to drink.Having quenched the thirst, however, the person still could fear future thirst, whichwould create the motivation to drink more or to carry water. Homans states that therelationship between motive and activity is reciprocal; if either is changed, the other willbe affected.Two other components of the external system, activity and interaction, also areinterdependent. Interaction—verbal or nonverbal communication—occurs as a result ofactivity. Actions (especially those by people who are members of the same group) affectothers and cause them to react, however subtly. Group members’ actions necessarilyproduce interactions among members.132 ❘❚ THE INTERACTION PYRAMIDThe relationship between activity and interaction becomes somewhat different when thegroup involved is a manager and his or her employees. When supervision is the activity,interaction (communication) does not adapt and change in the way that it does amongsamestatus group members. According to Homans, this produces the “pyramid ofinteraction” or hierarchical structure. This is the traditional organizational powerstructure in which a few people at the top have power over many others, and influencefilters down through the ranks. Homans states that it is difficult for one person tosupervise many persons; thus, the interaction pyramid allows for many levels ofsupervision and many small groups within the larger environment. This structure tendsto remain stable in the face of changes in activity; in fact, Homans perceives thepyramid as a method of organization into which larger groups naturally fall. (Homans’theory was developed prior to the emphasis on empowerment of employees and theflattening of organizational structures to reduce middle management.) Not allorganizational interaction is vertical; much of it is lateral (among peers).As organizations become more sophisticated, and awareness of the importance ofhuman resources grows, it becomes apparent that effective communication andinteraction are crucial to the success of groups and larger organizations. Activities suchas team building and group development may literally pay off in increased effectivenessand harmony in a work group.REFERENCEHomans, G.C. (1951). The human group. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.Groups Functioning as Systems Within an Environment134 ❘❚ ❚❘ POSITIVE GROUP NORMSAll groups have expressed and/or unexpressed norms, or ways of doing things.Expressed norms may be in the form of written rules or procedures. Unexpressed normsmay be tacit understandings about the ways in which members interrelate, how longmeetings will last, how much frivolity will be included in meetings, and so on. Severalcriteria are useful in making judgments about norms in groups and can help to increasethe clarity with which facilitators and groups confront particular issues.FEEDBACKIf people learned solely from experience, older people clearly would be more skilled atrelationships and behavior than younger people. In reality, how people use theirexperience is more important than the experience itself. Individuals learn throughdeveloping behavioral patterns guided by clear and accurate feedback about theeffectiveness and appropriateness of their actions. Feedback can come from a variety ofsources, including other group members, group facilitators, observers, datacollectioninstruments, audio and videotape playback, or degrees of task success.To be useful, feedback must be valid data and be related to events and actions.Feedback also is more useful if it is relevant to behavior and situations that can bechanged or modified. It is easier to change what one does than to change what one is.For example, the feedback that “You are a hostile person and should change” is lessuseful than “If your speech with me were less abrupt and argumentative, I could workbetter with you,” and that is less useful than “When you interrupt me, I feel discountedand then angry.” Negative motives (e.g., to punish the receiver or to establish thesender’s superiority) can reduce the validity of the feedback. The following is asummary of the general guidelines for giving feedback:■ Feedback should be specific and objective: it should describe observablebehaviors, and words should be quoted directly.■ It should not be evaluative, make inferences, or attribute feelings or motives.■ It should be given only for behaviors that can be changed.■ It should describe the impact of the behavior on the person who is giving thefeedback.■ It should be requested by the recipient.Accuracy of feedback can be checked or validated in the group setting. Recipientsof feedback can be asked to state in their own words what they heard. The group alsoshould provide support to the person receiving the feedback; its purpose is to help the ❚❘ 135person to solve problems, not to create new ones. The facilitator can help in this processby suggesting alternative or new behaviors and by reinforcing positive attempts tochange.SUPPORTIVE CLIMATEAn atmosphere of trust and nondefensiveness is necessary for people to be able to risktheir ideas and feelings, behave openly, and accept feedback. All group members mustbe able to risk being themselves, right or wrong, effective or ineffective, without feelingthat they are risking their membership in the group and the acceptance of others. Thisdoes not necessarily mean that conflict, anger, or differences should be avoided. Indeed,such emotions are more acceptable in a supportive climate.EXPERIMENTATIONAn important possibility in many group situations—especially in a training situation—isthe testing of alternative patterns of behavior and personal relationships. Within asupportive climate and with valid feedback, experimentation can be a key element inchanging behavior. Some people may, however, use experimentation defensively: “I didnot really feel like that; I just did that to see what you would do.” The differencebetween useful and useless experimentation is that useful experimentation concernsone’s personal behavior; experimenting with the behavior of others is “playing games.”PRACTICE AND APPLICATIONTo gain confidence in their newly acquired behaviors, group members need to practicethem. New behaviors need to be transferred to and retained in situations that are externalto the group or training setting. This sometimes is referred to as the “reentry” problem.It is possible and profitable to test actual application if, for example, the training isconducted at intervals (e.g., weekly meetings), because individuals may have receivedvalid feedback on their behavior. Simulated application can be used to deal with someissues, especially those concerning the group facilitator.GOAL CLARITYIt is helpful when group members and facilitators have some clear goals and purposes.This is especially true in a training group. A lack of clear learning goals produces twoproblems: differences in individual learning needs cannot be handled, and it becomesdifficult to determine the extent of progress. Goals are more helpful if they are related tospecific behaviors and actions and checked against feedback. Although clear goalscannot be expected immediately, goal clarification and review should be a continuingprocess for individuals and for the group.136 ❘❚ GROUP GROWTHA group has development needs beyond the collective needs of its members; it needstime and assistance to become mature, effective, and cohesive. A group often willrequire more time than the same number of individuals working separately or in smallsubgroups, achieving different, but valued, results. “Oneshot” groups need not receivespecialized attention.GROUP MAINTENANCEThe need for group maintenance is closely related to group growth. In many grouplearning models, members can use group maintenance to develop their skills in groupdiagnosis and group facilitation. Energy invested in group building and maintenance as apreventive rather than repair measure is a positive indicator of group health and growth.A facilitator can aid in this process by teaching the members about the roles of membersin groups and by helping them to learn to identify and deal with dysfunctional behaviors.COMMUNICATIONUsually only a small proportion of what is said in a group is heard or understood bymany of the members. People may be thinking about what they want to say next, whatthey would like to say but will not, what they think the speaker really is saying, or whatthey are feeling at the moment. Any of these distractions reduces the probability oflistening. A positive correction is for group members to slow down the rate of verbalcommunication or to make shorter statements that others can check to ensureunderstanding. Checking and nonverbal communication activities are useful in thisprocess.Another issue that often arises in groups is when no members are speaking orvisibly participating in some way. If the facilitator does not generate a discussion oractivity at that point, group members are likely to complain that “nothing is happening.”The facilitator can take this opportunity to help the members to see what is happening,i.e., to discuss the lack of communication at that point and what might be happening tocause it.STRUCTURE AND PROCEDURE“Unstructured” groups do not exist. All groups have norms and procedures, and evenanarchy is a structure. It is not always sufficiently clear how formal the structure shouldbe and whether it is imposed externally or derived internally. Structures are related toassumptions and values, as well as to the participants’ abilities to cope with ambiguity.When a group can establish and maintain the degree of structure it needs for effectivework and can change the structure as its needs and issues change, group growth isevident. ❚❘ 137SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Presentation and evaluation skills in human resource development (UATTSeries, Vol. 6). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.138 ❘❚ q Feedbackq Supportive Climateq Experimentationq Practice and Applicationq Goal Clarityq Group Growthq Group Maintenanceq Communicationq Structure and ProcedurePositive Group Norms ❚❘ 139❚❘ SOCIAL FACILITATIONSocial psychologists have observed that under certain circumstances, living organismsperform more of certain behaviors when in the presence of others than they do whenalone. This phenomenon is called social facilitation. In a paper for the journal Science,social psychologist Robert B. Zajonc (1969) culled numerous examples of socialfacilitation from empirical research by others. For example:■ According to one study, pairs and groups of ants will dig more sand per ant thansolitary ants will dig.■ According to a finding of research conducted in 1897, bicycle time trialists ridefaster in pairs than they ride alone.Such studies seem to support the belief in group synergy that is held by manyorganizationalprocess consultants; that is, that the joint performance of groups will begreater than would be the sum of the individual performances of the people composingthe groups. However, Zajonc also notes that, on cognitive tasks, the presence of othersdoes not always facilitate performance. Under some circumstances, the presence ofothers improves cognitivetask performance; under others, it worsens performance.Because the notion of group synergy is so important to the field of organizationdevelopment, this unexpected complexity makes it well worthwhile for consultants tostudy the research on social facilitation.TWO TYPES OF SOCIAL FACILITATIONZajonc classifies the research on social facilitation into two categories: audience effectstudies, which are concerned with socialfacilitation effects when a subject’sperformance is witnessed by one or more other persons; and coaction studies, whichtrack socialfacilitation effects when one or more other persons act alongside the subject.Audience EffectsOn certain mechanical tasks, which might be viewed as laboratory simulations of thesimplest elements of quality control or machine operation, there clearly is animprovement in accuracy related to the presence of an audience. For example, subjectsperforming the “pursuitrotor task,” in which they point a stylus at a revolving target,made fewer errors when an audience of four to eight onlookers was present than theymade when working alone. Similarly, National Guard recruits, who signaled when alight on a panel failed to switch on, performed an average of 34 percent better when theywere visited periodically by an officer than when they worked unobserved.140 ❘❚ Zajonc reports that having an audience improves ability to solve simplemultiplication problems and to respond to wordassociation tasks. On the other hand, inone experiment summarized by Zajonc, college students observed by a few onlookerstook an average of 14 percent more trials to learn a list of nonsense syllables than didsolitary students. In another experiment, the presence of an audience increased the timeto learn a “finger maze” by almost 12 percent.Coaction EffectsIn what might be termed the banquet effect, research reviewed by Zajonc suggests thatchickens, albino rats, and canine puppies all eat more in the company of other feastingmembers of their species than they do alone.Again, the studies of cognitive tasks, in the experiments reported by Zajonc, posesomething of a puzzle. Pairs of birds (greenfinches) take longer than lone birds to learnwhat food is unpalatable. Cockroaches—a photophobic species—take longer whencoacting than when alone to learn how to find the refuge of a darkened bottle in one armof a welllighted maze. However, coacting human subjects performed worse than lonesubjects on some cognitive tasks and better than lone subjects on other cognitive tasks.The coacting humans did better on chainword association, vowel cancellation,reversible perspective, and multiplication tasks. The solitary humans excelled on tests ofproblem solving and judgment.THE DOMINANT RESPONSE HYPOTHESISZajonc found a pattern in the research. His reports suggest that subjects do better in thepresence of observers when they are performing tasks or activities that they alreadyknow. They do less well in the presence of spectators when they are trying to learn howto do something. In other words, “performance is facilitated and learning is impaired bythe presence of spectators” (p. 218).Thus, subjects asked to repeat nonsense syllables or perform a fingermaze task doworse with an audience because of the novelty of the material. When birds try to learn toavoid unpleasanttasting food, cockroaches try to find a dark refuge in a welllit maze,or humans perform problemsolving and judgmental tasks, they are working with new,unlearned material and producing new responses. Mistakes predominate over correctanswers. When people do wordassociation, vowelcancellation, reversibleperspective,or multiplication tasks, they are performing in a way that they already know how to docorrectly. On the welllearned tasks, right answers are the dominant response, and thesubjects do better with coactors than they do alone.Because other research has shown that the presence of other members of one’sspecies is physically arousing, Zajonc further hypothesizes that general arousal mightaccount for the elicitation of the dominant response when spectators or coactors arepresent. When we are more aroused, we do more of whatever behavior is currentlydominant in our repertoire. If the response is welllearned, we produce that dominant ❚❘ 141response. If the desired behavior is not welllearned, we produce more of the responsewe know best, which at this stage of our learning is wrong answers.IMPLICATIONS FOR ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIORManagement styles and organizational climates vary substantially. Douglas McGregor(1960) characterizes the more directive, rewardandpunishment style as TheoryX andthe less directive, employeecentered style as TheoryY. McGregor hypothesizes that amanager’s assumptions underlying adoption of one of the two styles operate as selffulfilling prophecies concerning the amount of selfdirection and dedication thatemployees will express. However, he does not say that either TheoryX or TheoryY isbetter for all circumstances. The dominantresponse explanation of social facilitationmay suggest that there are tasks for which TheoryX leadership might produce betterresults and others for which a TheoryY style would obtain better results.For familiar, welllearned activities, such as assembly work and other repetitivetasks, the presence of coactors would seem to be likely to improve performance. It alsois likely that the presence of an observer (manager) would not hinder performance,unless, perhaps, it carried a message of distrust or punishment that would cause otherpsychological effects to come into play.On the other hand, when a person is attempting to perform a complex, unfamiliartask, socialfacilitation research seems to predict that observation by others would causethe person to make more mistakes.Social facilitation research also has important implications for trainers. It seems thatthe more novel the subject matter is, the more desirable it would be to individualizeinstruction and let the trainee work as independently as possible until the responses arelearned. Once the responses are welllearned, the optimum performance will be obtainedwhen the employee works in the presence of other workers or other spectators.Further research by industrial and organizational psychologists may help todetermine whether findings from socialfacilitation research can predict outcomes to beobtained from the use of various management styles and training methods.REFERENCESMcGregor, D. (1960). The human side of enterprise. New York: McGrawHill.Zajonc, R.B. (1969). Social facilitation. In L.L. Cummings & W.E. Scott., Jr. (Eds.), Readings in organizationalbehavior and human performance. Homewood, IL: R.D. Irwin. (Reprinted from Science, 1965, 149, 26974.)142 ❘❚ The DominantResponseHypothesis ❚❘ 143❚❘ SYSTEMATIC MULTIPLELEVEL OBSERVATIONOF GROUPS (SYMLOG)SYMLOG (Systematic MultipleLevel Observation of Groups) is a theory of personalityand group dynamics that includes practical methods for measuring interaction amongmembers of a group and applying the theory to an actual group. The conceptualframework was developed as a result of the research of Robert F. Bales (1970, 1979)and his colleagues at Harvard University.The components of SYMLOG are as follows:1. SYstematic. The SYMLOG approach allows group members to consider morevariables in their own and others’ values and behavior than would be possiblewith an unstructured, intuitive approach.2. Multiple Level. The SYMLOG approach allows one to deal with issuesconcerning individual members’ personalities, values, and behaviors; overallteam processes; and the effects of the broader organizational culture on the innerworkings of the group.3. Observation of Groups. The SYMLOG approach uses one’s own and others’observations about individual values and behaviors in real working groups.BACKGROUNDSYMLOG is based on a large body of research findings and a number of underlyingtheoretical assumptions. It is assumed that every act of behavior takes place in a largercontext, an interactive “field” of influences. One needs to understand the largercontext—personal, interpersonal, group, and situation—in order to understand patternsof behavior and to influence them successfully. The measurement procedures ofSYMLOG are designed to measure both the behavioral patterns and their larger context.A SYMLOG field diagram is a graphic illustration of a group that shows the way inwhich the individual members relate to one another. There is evidence to show that themost effective, productive, and satisfied groups show characteristic patterns in theirSYMLOG field diagrams. In addition, there are systematic ways of increasingunderstanding of the particular group being examined and of intervening in such a wayas to help it move toward more effective and satisfying working relationships. Theseapproaches can be learned in classroom settings, applied by external facilitators, or usedby the group members themselves as they make informed choices about their ownpriorities and changes they may wish to make. Copyright © 1983 by Robert F. Bales (Revised 1987). This article is adapted from one of a series of articles on leadership and effectiveteamwork distributed by SYMLOG Consulting Group. All rights reserved. Used with the permission of Robert F. Bales and the SYMLOGConsulting Group.144 ❘❚ THE FIELD DIAGRAMIn a SYMLOG field diagram, a sample of which is provided in the figure on the nextpage, the location of each group member is plotted in a “group space,” which can bevisualized as analogous to the physical space in which the group lives. The field diagramis a simplified picture of the way in which the members of the group tend to seethemselves and one another with regard to three dimensions that are critical inunderstanding and describing the way in which individuals interact:1. Dominance versus submissiveness;2. Friendliness versus unfriendliness; and3. Acceptance of, versus opposition to, the task orientation of establishedauthority.The field diagram gives a comprehensive frame of reference for describing thebehavior and values of the members of a particular group. Each member’s location inthe group space, shown as a circle in the diagram, is called an image and is labeled withthe member’s code name (generally a threeletter abbreviation of the member’s firstname, or the entire first name if it consists of only three letters). Each member’s imageis based on that member’s summary average rating in the three dimensions, as assessedby all group members.Dominance/SubmissivenessThe rating received by an individual in this dimension represents the prominence, status,power, and personal influence that the individual is seen to have in relation to othergroup members. In the field diagram, an individual member’s dominance is representedby the relative size of his or her image circle: the larger the circle, the more dominantthe person is perceived to be within the group.In the figure, the circles representing Ted, Bev, and Ann are larger than those of theother group members. Of these, Ted’s circle is the largest, which indicates that he isperceived by the group as the most dominant member. Rob and Dav have very smallcircles, meaning that they are seen as the most submissive members of the group.Dominant members may be high participators, probably extroverts; they also mayshow more of a tendency to impose their views on the group. The more submissivemembers typically are seen as quiet, passive, or introverted. However, the full meaningof an image location cannot be understood from its location in any single dimension; theother two dimensions must be considered at the same time. ❚❘ 145Values on Accepting Task Orientation of Established AuthorityValues onFriendlyBehaviorValues onUnfriendlyBehaviorValues on Opposing Task Orientation of Established AuthorityNote: Larger circle diameters indicate dominance. Expansion multiplier = 1.31.SYMLOG Field Diagram*Friendliness/UnfriendlinessThe field diagram shows images as located somewhere on the bipolar dimensionbetween unfriendly on the left side and friendly on the right side. An image on the leftside of the diagram often is associated with behaviors that are perceived to be selfinterested and selfprotective; images on the right side often are associated withbehaviors experienced as equalitarian, cooperative, or protective of others.In the figure, the image labeled Lin is the farthest right, which indicates that Lin isperceived as the friendliest person in the group. Art and Jak have images on theunfriendly side of the diagram and probably are perceived as selfcentered. Ted isperceived by others to be neither friendly nor unfriendly, with his image circle on theline dividing the friendly side of the diagram from the unfriendly side. * Reprinted by permission of Dr. Robert F. Bales and the SYMLOG Consulting Group from the SYMLOG Case Study Kit, New York:Free Press, 1980.146 ❘❚ Acceptance of/Opposition to the Task Orientation of Established Authority“The task orientation of established authority” means the rules and procedures that havebeen set up by authorities external to the group who will evaluate the group’sperformance. Authority may be represented by a supervisor, organizational orgovernmental constraints, society at large, or the like.Acceptance of the standards set up by authority is represented by the location of animage in the upper half of the diagram. Ted and Tom, in particular, are perceived asconcerned about following the directives of those in authority or doing things in aprescribed or “correct” manner. Opposing, disregarding, or trying to change authority isrepresented by a location in the lower half. Such people (e.g., Jak) seem to have littleregard for established procedures, preferring instead to challenge authority, create newapproaches, or change the existing order of things.Because Ann is seen as friendlier than Jak, it is likely that she is more concernedwith managing interpersonal needs and may be trying to soften the requirements ofauthority in order to avoid conflict in the group. The location of Jak’s image indicatesthat the members experience him as focusing attention on himself and obstructing anyprogress that the group tries to make.HOW IMAGE LOCATIONS ARE DERIVEDThe location of a member image on the field diagram is derived from a series of ratingsmade by all group members (including the individual in question), based on theirexperiences and impressions of that individual in the group. There are twentysix itemson the rating form (see illustration that follows); each item is designed to measure adirection or combination of directions on the SYMLOG field diagram.The size and location of a circle on the field diagram represents that member’saverage rating received in all three dimensions. Because the image is derived fromperceptions, it does not necessarily represent a member’s “true self”; it reflects only howthe individual is seen by the other members of the group.When members of a work group rate themselves and one another, they respond to a“rating question” such as the following:In general, what kinds of values does this person show in his or her behavior?This question is designed to indicate what the group members perceive to be the actualbehavior of the individual. Group members also may be asked to rate the kind ofbehavior that they feel would be ideal for a particular member.In general, what kinds of values would be ideal for this person to show in order to be mosteffective?The “ideal” is a concept. Thus, in addition to ratings of actual members, SYMLOGratings may be made on important personal or group concepts. The concepts also areshown as images in the field. Group members often are asked to rate several conceptsthat help in understanding the meaning of the field diagram or its implications forchange. These concepts are listed following the table. ❚❘ 147DESCRIPTIVE ITEMS—Individual and Organizational Values1. Individual financial success, personalprominence and power Rarely Sometimes Often2. Popularity and social success, being likedand admired Rarely Sometimes Often3. Active teamwork toward common goals,organizational unity Rarely Sometimes Often4. Efficiency, strong impartial management Rarely Sometimes Often5. Active reinforcement of authority, rules, andregulations Rarely Sometimes Often6. Toughminded, selforiented assertiveness Rarely Sometimes Often7. Rugged, selforiented individualism,resistance to authority Rarely Sometimes Often8. Having a good time, releasing tension,relaxing control Rarely Sometimes Often9. Protecting less able members, providing helpwhen needed Rarely Sometimes Often10. Equality, democratic participation in decisionmaking Rarely Sometimes Often11. Responsible idealism, collaborative work Rarely Sometimes Often12. Conservative, established, “correct”ways of doing things Rarely Sometimes Often13. Restraining individual desires fororganizational goals Rarely Sometimes Often14. Selfprotection, selfinterest first, selfsufficiency Rarely Sometimes Often15. Rejection of established procedures,rejection of conformity Rarely Sometimes Often16. Change to new procedures, different values,creativity Rarely Sometimes Often17. Friendship, mutual pleasure, recreation Rarely Sometimes Often18. Trust in the goodness of others Rarely Sometimes Often19. Dedication, faithfulness, loyalty tothe organization Rarely Sometimes Often20. Obedience to the chain of command,complying with authority Rarely Sometimes Often21. Selfsacrifice if necessary to reachorganizational goals Rarely Sometimes Often22. Passive rejection of popularity, going it alone Rarely Sometimes Often23. Admission of failure, withdrawal of effort Rarely Sometimes Often24. Passive noncooperation with authority Rarely Sometimes Often25. Quiet contentment, taking it easy Rarely Sometimes Often26. Giving up personal needs and desires, passivity Rarely Sometimes OftenSYMLOG Rating Form Copyright © 1983 by Robert F. Bales. Used with the permission of the author and the SYMLOG Consulting Group.148 ❘❚ 1. Wish. In general, what kinds of values do you personally wish to show in thegroup (whether or not you are actually able to do so)?2. Reject. In general, what kinds of values do you tend to reject, either in yourselfor in others?3. Expect. In general, what kinds of values do you expect others in the group toevaluate you as showing in your behavior?4. Most effective. In general, what kinds of values does the most effective member(or leader) you have known show in his or her behavior?The group whose field diagram is illustrated rated only the concepts wish andreject, as indicated in the diagram by the circles labeled Wsh and Rej, respectively.GROUP DYNAMICSPolarization and Unification in GroupsThe field diagram can be used to focus attention on the interactions and relationshipsthat are likely to characterize the group as a functioning whole. The diagram consists offour quadrants. In most effective teams, the images of the majority of the members arelocated in the upperright quadrant, which indicates values and behavior that are bothfriendly and accepting of the task orientation of established authority.However, in the group illustrated, the images of two members, Art and Jak, are onthe left or unfriendly side; and five members, Rog, Bev, Dav, Ann, and Jak, areperceived as demonstrating behavior and values that tend to oppose the task orientationof established authority. It has been noted previously that Ted, by far the most dominantmember of the group, is the most committed to the task orientation of establishedauthority. Thus, it is possible to see how the relative locations of images on the fielddiagram indicate the probable relationships of cooperation or conflict between or amongvarious group members.The OverlayIn the field diagram, an overlay consisting of two large circles connected by a long linetipped with opposing arrowheads is superimposed over the configuration of images. Thelong line is the line of polarization. The overlay can be moved around over theconfiguration of images. It is fitted to the configuration of images so as to reveal themost important features of the total configuration. Often, the most meaningful fit iswhen one end of the line of polarization passes through the groupaverage “wishedfor”location (Wsh), and the opposite end passes through the groupaverage “rejected”location (Rej), as is shown in the illustration.Cutting through the middle of, and at a right angle to, the line of polarization,between the two large circles, there is a long, dashed line, the line of balance. In ❚❘ 149addition, there are two short, dashed lines near the center where the two large circlesjoin. These are the swing lines. All three of these dashed lines are part of the overlay.The overlay represents the SYMLOG general theory of group dynamics. Theoverlay is first fitted over the configuration of images of the particular group. Each partof the overlay is then inspected to highlight specific, dynamic features of the group andthe roles that the members play, as described in the following paragraphs.Subgroups. When the line of polarization is arranged to pass through the wishedfor and rejected locations in a group’s field diagram, the two large circles often separatethe images into two opposing clusters. Images that fall within the boundary of a givenlarge circle are considered to be more alike than different in the values and behaviorthey represent. If the images represent group members, the members within the circlemay tend to form one of two kinds of subgroups:1. Reference subgroup. The subgroup within the circle containing the Wsh imageis called the reference subgroup. The circle is known as the reference circlebecause the Wsh image frequently is a major reference point for most of themembers, locating a critical point in the pattern of values and behaviors that thegroup members prefer. The members whose images fall toward the center of thereference circle tend to form a relatively unified group. They tend to sticktogether, especially in the face of opposition; and they tend to cooperate andmove toward the location of the Wsh image if they can.2. Opposition subgroup. A subgroup located within the circle centered on the Rejimage is called the opposition subgroup, and the circle is called the oppositecircle. It contains the images of those kinds of values and behaviors that themembers in the reference circle tend to reject. The opposite circle often does notcontain the images of any group members. If it does, the members in thereference subgroup tend to reject the members in the opposition subgroup andvice versa. This process of mutual rejection is called polarization.The Line of Polarization. The arrow passing through the Wsh image represents thepsychological tendencies of group members to try to move their images in the “wishedfor” direction and to unify themselves into a single, “good” cluster, in spite of whateverdiversity may exist. The arrow passing through the “rejected” image (Rej) on theopposite side of the diagram represents the psychological tendencies of members tomove the images in the opposite circle into a single, “bad” cluster, if they canpsychologically manage to do so and in spite of their diversity. The opposition in thedirection of the two arrows represents the psychological tendencies of members toseparate the “good” cluster from the “bad” cluster.Members in the opposition subgroup typically are different from those in thereference subgroup in terms of their priorities, their personality needs, and their formalroles. Although the members whose images cluster in the opposite circle may bereferred to as a subgroup, they typically do not cooperate easily with one another andmay even be polarized among themselves.150 ❘❚ Members in the reference subgroup may try in many ways to change members inthe opposition subgroup, but their attempts often are resisted and futile. If the strugglecontinues long enough, the members of the reference subgroup may give up and begin toreject not only the behavior and values of the opposition subgroup but also its members;they may even discontinue any further attempts at inclusion or change.Line of Balance. The line of balance, which is the long, dashed line between thereference and opposite circles, marks the dividing line between the two sides in apolarized struggle and helps to identify the dynamic tendencies of images that are not apart of either of the main, polarized clusters. The line of balance indicates which of themain subgroups an isolated image is closest to and, therefore, which subgroup theparticular member is most likely to join, if at all. However, the values and behavior ofmembers who are isolated from subgroups are likely to be so different from thosemarked by the groupaverage “wishedfor” image that these members may not choose tojoin, and they may not be accepted if they try to join.It is possible for an isolate (or a cluster in an outside position that may be called a“thirdparty subgroup”) to be drawn toward one of two roles in the group or to be forcedinto one of these roles by the attitudes of other members. These two roles are as follows:1. Scapegoat. If a polarized struggle is in progress and feelings are high, an isolatedmember or thirdparty subgroup may attract negative feelings from both of themain, conflicting subgroups and so may become a scapegoat, blamed andattacked by both sides. The risk is more pronounced for isolates rated by otherson the “negative” or unfriendly side of the field diagram.2. Mediator. A member whose image is located midway between the two opposedsides, on or near the line of balance, has a potential opportunity to become amediator. Such a member may be able to identify with both sides and to feelsimilar to both in such a way as to attract positive feelings from both. If amember in this position sees the opportunity to take the initiative and issufficiently dominant and skillful, he or she may mediate by providing criticalhelp in moderating the struggle in the group. This is more likely to occur if themediator is located on the friendly side of the field, but sometimes a person onthe unfriendly side can function as a mediator. Sometimes the same person orthirdparty subgroup acts as both scapegoat and mediator.The Swing Area. The swing lines (the two short, dashed lines parallel to the line ofbalance and on each side of it) enclose an area between the reference circle and theopposite circle, lying partly in each. Members whose images are located in this area canbe likened to the “swing vote” in a political election: they may swing to one side tosupport one subgroup on one issue and then support the other subgroup on a differentissue.Submissive members whose images fall in this area often feel “stuck”—so muchconflict as to whether to move in one way or the other that they cannot move at all. Theytend not to attract much attention and may want merely to “sink out of sight” because ❚❘ 151they are unable to resolve their conflicts. Other members in this area may be veryvisible, even dominant, but give out ambiguous cues as to whether they are friendly orunfriendly and whether or not they are oriented to the group tasks. Still other membersfound in the swing area simply may be indifferent.The LeaderMediator. The role of a leadermediator (not necessarily the formalleader) within the group is of special interest because it is found in so many good teamsand is often crucial. An effective team that endures over time does not manifest theextremes of polarization, subgrouping, isolated members, potential scapegoats, and soon, that are shown in the sample field diagram. However, such a team often has a mildtendency toward polarization. In many work groups, most of the members’ images (andmost of the reference circle) are found in or near the upperright quadrant—the friendly,taskoriented area that accepts the established authority and direction of the group. TheWsh image often is found near the center of the quadrant. However, there is a commontendency for one or a few members to diverge from the center of the referencegroupcluster and move in a more taskoriented but unfriendly direction so that they approachor pass over the boundary of the reference circle. In the sample field diagram, Tedalready has moved in this direction, and Tom appears to be approaching the border. Atthe same time, one or a few members may diverge from the center of the cluster andmove in the friendly and less taskoriented direction. In the figure, Lin is moving in thisdirection, and Bev already has passed over the border of the reference circle.This kind of divergence from the groupaverage Wsh location often is related to thedemands of formal roles within the group (technical demands for structure as contrastedto human relations demands) as well as to personality differences. The images of Tomand Bev indicate such divergence, and these two people would tend to experienceconflict when dealing with each other. Polarizations of this type usually are not sosevere as those between the two extremes of the line of polarization, but often theycreate considerable difficulties. This probably is the most characteristic kind ofpolarization in taskoriented groups; if it is not mediated or resolved effectively, it tendsto reduce both group productivity and group satisfaction.When such polarization becomes obvious, a skillful leadermediator can play acrucial role in keeping the two people or factions from diverging too far. In the samplegroup, Pat is in a position to help in this way because Pat’s image is about midwaybetween those of Tom and Bev. However, in order to be successful, any mediator needsto be sufficiently dominant, skillful, and able to interpret and communicate the needsand priorities of the members of the two factions.THE SYMLOG BAR GRAPHThe figure on the next page shows the twentysix items used by the members of thesample group to rate one another. The length of the line of X’s following each itemindicates the average rating for that item. The ratings depict judgments of the frequency(rarely, sometimes, and often) with which the values described by the item were actually152 ❘❚  ❚❘ 153shown in behavior. The lengths of the lines of X’s, when read down the list, form a bargraph.The bar graph also shows an effectiveness profile, drawn as a vertical lineconnecting the letters “E.” This profile was derived from a series of surveys conductedby the SYMLOG Consulting Group, which asked leaders and members of a largenumber of groups in a wide variety of settings to rate the “most effective” groupmembers and leaders they have known on the twentysix items. The location of the letter“E” for each item marks its norm, or the average response that indicates the mosteffective frequency.Thus, the bar graph of observed frequencies for a particular group may be comparedwith an effectiveness profile. This comparison highlights the specific values and/orbehaviors on which a particular group differs markedly from the survey respondentsregarding what is “effective.” The SYMLOG Consulting Group has a number ofnormative profiles of different kinds of groups in different settings, and new norms canbe developed for particular client populations.A particular group or some members of it probably will disagree with some aspectsof any effectiveness profile that is chosen for the purpose of comparison. The purposesof a particular group or its particular situation may require a somewhat different profile;or the group may shift its priorities and values over time depending on the situation, thework of the group, and the needs of its members. Nevertheless, by comparing their ownratings of one another with a wellchosen effectiveness profile, the members of anygroup can discuss and make explicit choices about the way in which they want theirgroup to function.CHANGING A GROUP’S PERFORMANCEThe roles of group members can be changed. In fact, they are much easier to changethan the deeper personality characteristics of individual members. Group roles arenaturally dynamic; they have a tendency to move around in the space represented by thefield diagram. In addition, they are interdependent: the movement of each is dependenton the movement of all or most of the others.One of the great secrets of successful change is that it may be easier to change thewhole, interdependent configuration of roles than to change them one at a time. Such atransformation can be encouraged by open group discussion to which all memberscontribute in order to understand why each one behaves as he or she does and in order tonegotiate new patterns for behavior. The probability of effective change is increased bycarrying the discussion to the point of explicit decisions and commitments to modifybehaviors.In using the SYMLOG approach with a group, suitable agreements andarrangements need to be made with the members about the kind and degree of detail andamount of interpretation that they wish to receive as feedback. The SYMLOG fielddiagrams show how the group is perceived by each individual member; bar graphs show154 ❘❚ how each individual is seen by the group; and customized, interpretive reports providedby the SYMLOG Consulting Group comment on each significant departure from theselected effectiveness profile, the resulting effects on teamwork, and what might help.SYMLOG, as a theory of group dynamics and a process by which a group can examineits overall functioning and effectiveness, can contribute greatly to the satisfaction andproductivity of group members.REFERENCESBales, R.F. (1970). Personality and interpersonal behavior. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.Bales, R.F., Cohen, S.P., & Williamson, S.A. (1979). SYMLOG: A system for the multiple level observation ofgroups. New York: Free Press.SOURCEBales, R.F. (1988). Overview of the SYMLOG system: Measuring behavior in groups. In J.W. Pfeiffer (Ed.), The1988 annual: Developing human resources. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 155❚❘ THE TAVISTOCK MODELThe Tavistock method originated with the work of the British psychoanalyst Wilfred R.Bion. Convinced of the importance of considering not only the individual but also thegroup of which the individual is a member, in the late 1940s Bion conducted a series ofsmall study groups at London’s Tavistock Institute of Human Relations. He reported hisexperiences in a series of articles for the journal Human Relations and, later, as the bookExperiences in Groups (Bion, 1961).Gradually, Bion’s novel approach of viewing a group as a collective entity evolvedinto a method. In a series of conferences from 1957 on—under the guidance of A.Kenneth Rice, chairman of Tavistock’s Centre for Applied Social Research and amember of one of Bion’s early study groups—the design shifted from the roles thatindividuals assume in work groups to the dynamics of leadership and authority relationsin groups. Rice’s views that individuals cannot be understood, or changed, outside thecontext of the groups in which they live, shaped the contours of the group relationsconference as a teaching modality. Under his influence, group work in the 1960s inGreat Britain focused on group relations; in contrast, groups in the United States movedtoward personal growth and the study of interpersonal dynamics.In 1965, Rice led a conference in the United States, and the Tavistock methodbegan to be developed here by Margaret Rioch and others. The A.K. Rice Institute isnow the U.S. equivalent of the Tavistock Institute.BASIC PREMISESAn aggregate cluster of persons becomes a group when interaction between membersoccurs, when members’ awareness of their common relationship develops, and when acommon group task emerges. Various forces can operate to produce a group: an externalthreat, collective regressive behavior, or attempts to satisfy needs for security, safety,dependency, and affection. A more deliberate force is the conscious choice ofindividuals to band together to perform a task.When the aggregate becomes a group, the group behaves as a system—an entitythat in some respects is greater than the sum of its parts—and the primary task of thegroup is survival. Although this task frequently is disguised, group survival becomes alatent motivating force for all group members. It provides the framework for theexploration of group behavior.Appreciating the group as a whole requires a perceptual shift on the part of theobserver, a blurring of individual separateness and a readiness to see the collectiveinteractions generated by group members. In Gestalt terms, the group is focal andindividuals are background.156 ❘❚ The groupasawhole approach can be summarized as follows:■ The primary task of any group is what it must do to survive.■ The group has a life of its own only as a consequence of the fantasies andprojections of its members.■ The group uses its members in the service of its primary task.■ The behavior of any group member at any moment is the expression of his or herown needs, history, and behavioral patterns and the needs, history, and behavioralpatterns of the group.■ Whatever the group is doing or talking about, the group is always talking aboutitself, reflecting itself.■ Understanding the process of the group provides group members with heightenedawareness and the ability to make previously unavailable choices about theiridentities and functions in a group setting.BION’S THEORYGroups, like dreams, have a manifest, overt aspect and a latent, covert aspect. Themanifest aspect is the work group, a level of functioning at which members consciouslypursue an agreedon objective and work toward the completion of a task. Althoughgroup members have hidden agendas, they rely on internal and external controls toprevent these hidden agendas from emerging and interfering with the announced grouptask. They pool their rational thinking and combine their skills to solve problems andmake decisions.In truth, groups do not always function rationally or productively, nor are individualmembers necessarily aware of the internal and external controls they rely on to maintainthe boundary between their announced intentions and their hidden agendas. Thecombined hidden agendas of group members constitute the latent aspect of group life,the basic assumption group. In contrast to the rational group, this group consists ofunconscious wishes, fears, defenses, fantasies, impulses, and projections. The workgroup is focused away from itself, toward the task; the basic assumption group isfocused inward, toward fantasy and a more primitive reality. Tension always existsbetween the two; it is balanced by various behavioral and psychological structures,including individual defense systems, ground rules, expectations, and group norms.Basic AssumptionsOn the basic assumption level of functioning, the group behaves as if a certainassumption is true and valid and as if certain behaviors are vital to the group’s survival.“Basic” refers to the survival motivation of the group; “assumption” underscores the factthat the survival motivation is based, not on fact or reality, but on the collectiveprojections of the group members. ❚❘ 157Bion identifies three distinct types of basic assumptions: dependency, fight/flight,and pairing. Turquet (1974) adds a fourth: oneness.Basic Assumption Dependency. The essential aim of this level of group functioningis to attain security and protection from one individual, either the designated leader or amember who assumes that role. The group behaves as if it is stupid, incompetent, orpsychotic in the hope that it will be rescued from its impotency by a powerful, Godlikeleader who will instruct and direct it toward task completion. When the leader fails tomeet these impossible demands, the group members express their disappointment andhostility in a variety of ways. The dependency function often serves as a lure for acharismatic leader who exerts authority through powerful personal characteristics.Basic Assumption Fight/Flight. In this mode of functioning, the group perceivesits survival as dependent on either fighting (active aggression, scapegoating, physicalattack) or fleeing from the task (withdrawal, passivity, avoidance, ruminating on pasthistory). Anyone who mobilizes the aggressive forces of the group is granted leadership,but the persistent bickering, infighting, and competition make most leadership effortsshort lived. In flight functioning, leadership usually is bestowed on an individual whominimizes the importance of the task and facilitates the group movement away from thehereandnow.Basic Assumption Pairing. Pairing phenomena include bonding between twoindividuals who express warmth and affection leading to intimacy and closeness. Thepair need not be a man and a woman. Such a pair or pairs often provide mutualintellectual support to the extent that other members become inactive. When the groupassumes this mode of functioning, it perceives that its survival is contingent onreproduction; that is, in some magic way, a “Messiah” will be born to save the groupand help it complete its task.Basic Assumption Oneness. Described by Turquet (1974), this level of functioningoccurs “when members seek to join in a powerful union with an omnipotent force,unobtainably high, to surrender self for passive participation, and thereby to feelexistence, wellbeing, and wholeness” (p. 357). The group commits itself to a“movement”—a cause outside itself—as a way of survival. Leaders who offer aphilosophy of life or methods to achieve higher levels of consciousness becomeattractive to the group in this type of basic assumption functioning.The basic assumption life of any group is never exhausted, nor is it imperative for agroup to rid itself of its basicassumption characteristics. In fact, as Bion perceivessociety, certain institutions capitalize on our collective basicassumption strivings andprovide structures and vehicles to channel these strong, primitive feelings. Hence, thechurch attempts to satisfy dependency needs; the military and industry employfight/flight motivation; and the aristocracy and the political system—with their emphasison breeding and succession—build on basic assumption pairing. The interest inmysticism and cosmic consciousness seems to be an expression of basic assumptiononeness.158 ❘❚ THE GROUP RELATIONS CONFERENCEThe Tavistock method can be applied in many different group situations. Primarilyintended to teach group dynamics and increase the awareness of group phenomena, themethod is formally applied in group relations conferences, events that are characterizedby a clear statement of objectives, specific staff roles, and a pervasive, allencompassingapplication of the groupasawhole theoretical approach.The aims of such conferences tend to be to study the ways in which authority isvested in leaders by others, to study the factors involved as they happen, to study thecovert processes that operate in and among groups, and to study the problemsencountered in the exercise of authority. There is no attempt to prescribe specificallywhat anyone shall learn. Participants are provided with experiencebased groupopportunities to study their own behavior as it happens, and conference events allowconsultation with at least one staff member to facilitate that task.Consultants consult only to a group, not to individual members, and only within thetime boundaries prescribed. The consultant’s role often is the subject of muchconsternation among members, which is deliberate, in the interest of assisting membersto pursue the task of the event in which they are involved. The consultant does notengage in social amenities, advice giving, or nurturing, but performs his or her task byproviding interventions for the group’s consideration and reporting his or herobservations back to the group. Thus, the consultant confronts the group by drawingattention to group behavior. This is done by means of description, process observation,thematic development, and other interventions, some of which are designed to shock thegroup into awareness of what is happening.Participants typically experience some pain as they explore issues of authority,responsibility, boundaries (of input, roles, tasks, and time), projection, organizationalstructure, and largegroup phenomena.Group members inevitably project on the staff their fantasies, fears, and doubtsabout authority and power. Exploration of these projections can yield significantlearnings, but the role of consultant is difficult. Strict adherence to it is a hallmark of theTavistock method.REFERENCESBion, W.R. (1961). Experiences in groups. New York: Basic Books.Turquet, P.M. (1974). Leadership: The individual and the group. In G.S. Gibbard, J.J. Hartman, & R.D. Mann(Eds.), Analysis of groups. San Francisco: JosseyBass.SOURCEBanet, A.G., Jr., & Hayden, C. (1977). A Tavistock primer. In J.E. Jones & J.W. Pfeiffer (Eds.), The 1977 annualhandbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 159Work GroupDependency FightFlightPairing OnenessBasic Assumption Groups160 ❘❚ ❚❘ THEORIES OF GROUP DEVELOPMENT:AN OVERVIEWEARLY THEORIESBales and Strodtbeck (1951) and Bales (1953) describe stages of group development,using the categories from Bales’s (1950) interaction process analysis. The three stagesthey describe included getting organized (orientation stage), asking for and givingopinions (evaluation stage), and asking for and giving suggestions (emergence solutionsstage). At first only task behaviors were studied, but as roles were considered,interpersonal behaviors began to be observed (Parson & Bales, 1955).Bennis and Shepard (1956) studied data from Tgroups and noticed an initial phasethat began with an expression of dependency needs, followed by a counterdependencestage, and concluded with a resolution stage. This was a taskoriented phase. The secondphase involved interdependence and working relationships. It began with cohesion,changed to interpersonal conflict, and ended with interpersonalproblem resolution andeffective group task work. Each stage included a subphase that focused on conflict.Bennis and Shepard perceived each stage as developmental; a group could work througheach to resolution and proceed to the next or it could become fixed in any stage. Themajor issue that was likely to arise in phase one was orientation to authority; the majorissue that could stop development in phase two was intimacy.Schutz (1958) added a third stage to Bennis and Shepard’s model and proposed athreestage model based on interpersonal relations. Schutz’s sequential stages areinclusion (dependence), control (independence), and affection (interdependence)—changed to openness in 1982. Schutz called his model FIRO (Fundamental InterpersonalRelations Orientation). It was one of the first theories to consider conflict and control asmajor issues in smallgroup development. In addition, Schutz saw his model as cyclicalrather than linear.Bion (1961) identified the work group as the final and productive stage of groupdevelopment. Communication is the key to this group’s effectiveness. Bion alsoidentified three other types of groups, based on their “basic assumptions.” These may ormay not be sequential, but a group must develop past these dysfunctional basicassumptions if it is to evolve into a productive work group. The dependency group issearching for leadership—for an authority figure who will protect and guide it. Thefightflight group is engaged in conflict, with members selecting either aggression andbickering or avoidance and withdrawal. There is a tendency to argue about the task or toavoid working on it in order to avoid conflict. In the pairing group, members havebegun to pair off for mutual support. Later, Turquet (1974) added the basic assumption ❚❘ 161of “oneness” to describe a group in which the members seek to join or surrender to ahigher force. Leaders who promise “higher consciousness” appeal to this group.Tuckman (1965) summarized the smallgroup research in describing a sequentialprocess of group development that included both interpersonal and task areas. Heidentified four stages of development: forming, storming, norming, and performing.Gibb (1964) formulated a theory that combined the linearprogressive models andthe cyclical models. He called the four stages acceptance, data flow, goals and norms,and control. Much of Gibb’s observations were based on Tgroups. Gibb emphasizedthe development of the interpersonal concepts of trust, communication, integration, andinterdependence. As individuals grow, so does the group. Conflict is not one of Gibb’sconcepts, but it is implied that the group deals with it in the second stage through opencommunication, creative problem solving, and effective decision making.Mills (1964) added a fifth stage. His first four stages parallel Tuckman’s and arecalled the encounter, testing boundaries and modeling roles, negotiating an indigenousnormative system, and production. The fifth stage is the conclusion of the group; he callsit separation.Mann (1967) called his first four stages initial complaining, premature enactment,confrontation, and internalization. He called the fifth stage separation and terminalreview. Most of the subsequent models included a fifth stage.Slater (1966) identified three initial stages, anxiety and frustration with the leader,attacking the leader, and high group morale and equalitarianism, with a later stage ofrelaxed restriction that included some intermember conflict and resolution. Thesequence of Slater’s first two stages is different from Tuckman’s. Slater noted thatanxiety and frustration create a fightflight pattern similar to Bion’s and that the attackon the leader is created by dependency issues.Dunphy (1968) proposed a sixstage model based on his observation of selfanalyticgroups. The first stage is maintenance of external, normative standards. The second isindividual rivalry, the third, aggression; the fourth, negativism; the fifth, emotionalconcerns, and the sixth, high affection. The first stage is parallel to what Tuckman called“forming.” The third, fourth, and fifth parallel what Tuckman called “storming.” Thefifth and sixth also parallel Schutz’s third stage of “affection.” Dunphy did not propose aperforming or separation stage.LATER THEORIESYalom (1970), Lacoursiere (1974), and Braaten (1975) all proposed fourstage modelsthat combined Tuckman’s third and fourth stages and included a termination stage.Yalom’s stages were orientation and hesitant participation; conflict, dominance, andrebellion; intimacy, closeness, and cohesiveness; and termination. Spitz and Sadock(1973) also combined Tuckman’s first and second stages, resulting in a threestagetheory focusing on dependence, interdependence, and termination.162 ❘❚ Charrier (1974) named five stages: polite or why we’re here; bid for power;constructive; and esprit.Hare (1976) developed a cyclic sequence that begins and ends with latent patternmanagement and tension management. His three middle stages are adaption,integration, and goal attainment. In this model, task behaviors promote the groupdevelopment process.In sequential order, the task behaviors are defining the situation, developing skills,developing roles, and working. This model also includes a termination subphase similarto Mann’s stage of separation and terminal review. The cyclical process is then repeated.Cohen and Smith (1976) described ten phases: acquaintance, goal ambiguity anddiffuse anxiety, members’ search for position/definition, sharpened affects and anxieties,sharpened interactions, norm crystallization/enforcementdefensification, distributiveleadership, decreased defensiveness and increased experimentation, group potency, andtermination. Each phase is related to five themes: anxiety, power, normatization,interpersonalization, and personalization. Their comprehensive model also includes anintervention cube (diagnostic) and a criticalincident model (to determine wheninterventions are needed). They also discussed possible groupintervention strategies.Corey and Corey (1977) offered a fourstage theory involving initial, transition,working, and final stages, along with pre and postgroup descriptions. They alsofocused on leader ethics.Stanford (1977) based his model on classroom groups. He reversed Tuckman’sstorming and norming stages because of the more directive role of the leader ineducational settings. He also added the termination stage.In 1977, Tuckman and Jensen added a fifth stage, which they called adjourning, toTuckman’s model.Miles (1981) proposed an eightstage model to assess training groups. The stagesare: entering the situation; three storming stages of conflict over goals and expectancies,resistance, and factional crisis; two norming stages of golden glow and getting involvedmore deeply; and the seventh and eighth stages of productive work and deceleration.The sixth stage included some conflict. This model also parallels that of Tuckman. Mileswas one of the first to suggest that it is the responsibility of leaders to train groupmembers to analyze and cope with these developmental changes.Ward (1982) called the five stages orientation, power, cohesiveness, working, andtermination. Kormanski and Mozenter (1987) called them awareness, conflict,cooperation, productivity, and separation. Cooke and Widdis (1988) called them Politeor Purpose; Power; Positive; and Proficient.SUMMARY OF THEORIESThe Tuckman model (forming, storming, norming, performing, and adjourning)generally is accepted today as the basic model of group development. It synthesizes theprevious work, and little has been done subsequently that improves on it. Tuckman also ❚❘ 163has done substantial research that supports his model. Some models combine the thirdand fourth stages, and some create more stages that correspond to Tuckman’s secondand third stages. The interpersonal and task behaviors described in all the models aresimilar; the main differences are to be found in the terms used to describe them.The primary points to be made in addition to identifying the stages of groupdevelopment are as follows:■ Movement from one stage to another is based on successfully resolving thethematic concerns of the current stage.■ Both personalinterpersonal and task concerns must be addressed in each phase.These concerns are parallel and interrelated.REFERENCESBales, R.F. (1950). Interaction process analysis: A method for the study of small groups. Reading, MA: AddisonWesley.Bales, R.F. (1953). The equilibrium problem in small groups. In T. Parson, R.F. Bales, & E.A. Shils (Eds.),Working papers in the theory of action (pp. 111161). Glencoe, IL: Free Press.Bales, R.F., & Strodtbeck, F.L. (1951). Phases in group problemsolving. Journal of Abnormal and SocialPsychology, 46, 485495.Bennis, W.G., & Shepard, H.A. (1956). A theory of group development. Human Relations, 9, 415437.Bion, R.W. (1961). Experiences in groups. New York: Basic Books.Braaten, L.J. (1975). Developmental phases of encounter groups and related intensive groups: A critical review ofmodels and a new proposal. Interpersonal Development, 5, 112129.Charrier, G.O. (1974). Cog’s ladder: A model of group development. In J.W. Pfeiffer & J.E. Jones (Eds.), The1974 annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Cohen, A.M., & Smith, R.D. (1976). The critical incident in growth groups: Theory and techniques. San Diego,CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Cooke, P., & Widdis, W. (1988). Guidelines for interventions in groups. Unpublished manuscript.Corey, G., & Corey, M.S. (1977). Groups: Process and practice. Monterey, CA: Brooks/Cole.Dunphy, D. (1968). Phases, roles, and myths in selfanalytic groups. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 4,195225.Gibb, J.E. (1964). Climate for trust formation. In L.P. Bradford, J.R. Gibb, & K.D. Benne (Eds.), Tgroup theoryand laboratory method: Innovation in reeducation. New York: John Wiley.Hare, A.P. (1976). Handbook of small group research (2nd ed.). New York: Free Press.Kormanski, C.L., & Mozenter, A. (1987). A new model of team building: A technology for today and tomorrow.In J.W. Pfeiffer (Ed)., The 1987 annual: Developing human resources. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Lacoursiere, R.B. (1974). A group method to facilitate learning during the stages of psychiatric affiliation.International Journal of Group Psychotherapy, 24, 342351.Mann, R.D. (1967). Interpersonal styles and group development. New York: John Wiley.Miles, M.B. (1981). Learning to work in groups (2nd ed.). New York: Teachers College Press.164 ❘❚ Mills, T.M. (1964). Group transformation. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: PrenticeHall.Parson, T., & Bales, R. (1955). Family, socialization, and interaction process. New York: Free Press.Schutz, W.D. (1958). FIRO: Threedimensional theory of interpersonal behavior. New York: Rinehart.Slater, P.E. (1966). Microcosm: Structural, psychological, and religious evaluation in groups. New York: JohnWiley.Spitz, H., & Sadock, B. (1973, June 1). Psychiatric training of graduate nursing students. New York State Journalof Medicine, pp. 13341338.Stanford, G. (1977). Developing effective classroom groups. New York: Hart.Tuckman, B.W. (1965). Developmental sequence in small groups. Psychological Bulletin, 63, 384399.Tuckman, B.W., & Jensen, M.A. (1977). Stages of small group development revisited. Group & OrganizationStudies, 2, 419427.Ward, D.E. (1982). A model for the more effective use of theory in group work. Journal for Specialists in GroupWork, 7, 224230.Yalom, I.E. (1970). The theory and practice of group psychotherapy. New York: Basic Books.SOURCESKormanski, C. (1988). Using group development theory in business and industry. Journal for Specialists in GroupWork, 13, 3043.Pfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Presentation and evaluation skills in human resource development (UATTseries, Vol. 7). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 165StagesEarly Theories One Two Three Four FiveBales, et al. Orientation Evaluation EmergenceSolutionsBennis andShepardDependence CounterdependenceResolution InterdependenceBion Dependency Fight/flight Pairing WorkDunphy 1. Maintenanceof External,normativestandards2. Individualrivalry3. Aggression 4. Negativisms 5. EmotionalConcerns6. HighAffectionGibb Acceptance Data flow Goals and norms ControlMann InitialcomplainingPrematureenactmentConfrontation Internalization Separation andterminal reviewMills The Encounter Testingboundaries andmodeling rolesNegotiating andindigenousnormativesystemProduction SeparationSchutz Inclusion Control Openness(affection)DeinclusionSlater Anxiety andfrustration withthe leaderAttacking theleaderHigh groupmorale andequalitarianismRelaxedrestrictionTuckman Forming Storming Norming Performing AdjourningLater Theories One Two Three Four FiveCharrier Polite (Whywe’re here)Bid for Power Constructive EspritCohen andSmith1. Acquaintance2. Goalambiguity anddiffuse anxiety3. Memberssearch forposition/definition4. Sharpenedaffects andanxieties5. Sharpenedinteractions6. Normcrystallization7. Distributiveleadership8. Decreaseddefensivenessand increasedexperimentation 9. Group potency10. TerminationCooke andWiddisPolite/PurposePower Positive ProficientCorey andCoreyInitial Transition Working FinalHare Latent patternmanagementand tensionmanagementAdaption Integration GoalAttainmentLatent patternmanagementand tensionmanagementKormanski& MozenterAwareness Conflict Cooperation Productivity SeparationMiles 1. Entering thesituation2. Conflict overgoals andexpectations3. Resistance4. Factionalcrisis5. Golden glow6. Gettinginvolved moredeeply7. Productivework8. DecelerationSpitz andSadockDependence Interdependence TerminationStanford Forming Norming Storming Performing TerminationWard Orientation Power Cohesiveness Working TerminationYalom(Lacoursiere,Braaten)Orientationand hesitantparticipationConflict,dominance, andrebellionIntimacy,closeness, andcohesivenessTerminationTheories of Group Development166 ❘❚ ❚❘ TORI THEORY AND PRACTICEAt the core of Gibb’s (1972, 1978) theory of personal, group, and organizationaldevelopment is trust—trust in oneself, in others, and in the social systems that peoplecreate. The name of the theory, TORI, is an acronym for the four core dimensions of thetheory: Trust, Openness, Realization, and Interdependence.Dimock (1987) describes the basics of TORI theory:In the TORI framework there are four dimensions or modal concerns in group growth. Acceptanceis concerned with the achievement of membership in the group based on trust. Data flow isconcerned with opening valid, spontaneous communication in the group and translating these datainto decision making and choices. Goal formation has to do with determining member wants andintegrating them into problem solving and group action planning, with a goal of productive,creative work. Control is concerned with leadership, power, and organizational structures that canbe developed into freedomgiving, flexible forms. According to TORI theory, the most revealingaspect of a group’s development is a description of the ways in which the early fears in the groupare resolved by an increase in trust. (p. 76)Newly formed groups experience similar fears and difficulties. The chart below,which depicts the TORI groupdevelopment process, describes some of the problemsthat new groups experience and what the problems are replaced with as groups developtrust.Tori Group DevelopmentModal Concern Individual Behavior Early Development Later DevelopmentTrustAcceptanceAccepting self andothersConformityFear of adequacyDiversity welcomedSupport,encouragementMembership TrustingExpressing warmthSeeing differencesStatus seekingNeed for roledefinitionAcceptance ofnonconformityTrust and risk takingOpennessData flowDecision makingSpontaneityRapportDepth ofcommunicationDisclosingStrategy, cautionAmbiguitySecrecyDistortion of dataClarity, directnessSpontaneousexpressionListening, sharingIncreasing feedbackRealizationGoal formationProductivityAssertingExploringClarifying own needsAchievingPersuasion adviceExtrinsic motivationCompetition, rivalryApathy, withdrawalInvolvement, creativityCooperationCommon goalsEnthusiasmInterdependenceControlOrganizationParticipatingCooperatingGiving and gettingfreedomDependencyBargainingFormal rulesStructure, channelsInformalityFlexible structuresLittle need for leadersRoles, power irrelevant ❚❘ 167TORI theory includes the following principles and assumptions:1. Social systems—groups, individuals, communities, nations, and organizations—arebest understood and improved if one thinks of them as living, growing organisms.2. Fear, which is a symptom of unresolved trust, is the greatest inhibitor of growth.3. Growth is a movement from fear to trust. The following movements are signs ofgrowth: from depersonalization and roles toward personalization; from a closedsystem toward an open system; from selfish motivations toward selfdetermination;and from dependence on others toward interdependence.4. Fearful people tend to become defensive. Defensive actions can be classified intofour forms: depersonalization and role playing; facade building and covertstrategizing; imposition and persuasion; and high control and dependence.5. When people trust and lower their defenses, they display the following types ofbehavior: intimacy and freedom from roles and stereotypes; openness and honesty;selfdetermination, assertiveness, and actualization; and reciprocity andinterdependence.6. Environmental forces can inhibit growth and trust. Likewise, a person’s environmentcan nurture and sustain growthproducing behaviors such as creativity, highlearning, group productivity, personal growth, and group vitality.Growth occurs when a person chooses to act in ways that reinforce desired physicalresponses and behavioral patterns. Behavioral change takes place when people take riskssuch as showing feelings rather than talking about them; acting rather thancontemplating or observing; and carrying out impulses or making choices. Growth is theresult of selfsustained and selfdirected changes in lifestyle and behavioral patterns.THE TORI THEORY OF LEADERSHIPThe TORI system makes several assumptions about leadership and about therelationship between leadership style and learning.1. Group leaders are most effective when they are open, tolerant of others, andinterdependent.2. Small groups can discover styles of coping when their environments are low indefense. The most effective leader is one who adjusts to the group’s changingnorms and who becomes an active, assertive member but does not distancehimself or herself from the group by assuming a traditional leadership role.3. Functional behaviors or styles (personal, open, selfdetermining, andinterdependent) are intrinsically rewarding and selfperpetuating if the systemenvironment is high in trust and low in defense. The group leader trusts that theprocess will develop and does not attempt to teach, train, persuade, or model thedesired behavior.168 ❘❚ 4. Groups grow in a selfsustaining manner when its members are intimate, open,allowing, and interdependent.5. Highdefense groups experience practically no perceptual or feeling input.Therefore, eliciting members’ feelings and reactions is a powerful force towardcreating more functional styles of coping and relating. Functional feedback alsoappears to have a powerful impact.The following table is a check list for group or team leaders who are applying TORItheory. The most important point to remember is that the TORI leader operates from aposition of trust. TORI leaders trust their impulses, others’ motivations, the processes ofgroup interaction, the goodness of the world and of people, others’ abilities andcapacities, and others’ capacities to assume responsibility for their own lives. Fearfulleaders tend to be impersonal, closed, and controlling—all of which are symptoms of theleaders’ lack of trust. In contrast, TORI leaders recognize their own fears and, therefore,are able to control them.Fears lose their ability to frighten as people begin to understand their causes and asthey learn that fears will dissipate in an atmosphere of openness and interaction. Leadersmust become well acquainted with both their own fears and with others’ fears. Theymust learn to deal with fears both verbally and nonverbally during the group’sinteraction.Inexperienced leaders have many fears: of losing control, of appearing incompetentor unprofessional, that group members will be hurt, of not living up to the group’sexpectations, of ceasing to be objective, that members might perceive other members asmore competent or helpful than themselves, and of being unable to help the group toresolve conflicts or crises. Experienced leaders, on the other hand, are able to overcomethe urge to play the traditional leader role and to enter into personal relationshipsinstead.Putting TORI theory into practice both on the job and as part of one’s lifestyle takestime and effort but can be accomplished. Few who truly commit to giving up traditionalroles revert to role behavior. Ideally, TORItheory practitioners act the same whenleading groups as they do when they are participating as group members.IMPLEMENTING TORI THEORY IN ORGANIZATIONSThe TORI style of leadership is appropriate for leadership roles in organizations.Typically, people in management positions, whether they be parents, teachers,administrators, or managers, attempt to manage the atmosphere, the communicationnetworks, the motivations, and the structures of their systems. Basically distrusting, theyuse praise and punishment, performance appraisals, meritbased reward systems,competition, quality control, and rules to keep their people in line. The data produced bythese systems indicates their effectiveness; however, the data do not reflect underlyingnegative reactions such as depersonalization, rigid adherence to roles, and fear;circumvention of rules; passive attitudes; and cycles of dependence and hostility. ❚❘ 169A more humanistic and productive style of leadership is to “go with the flow” andto contribute directly to the system’s emergence and growth. As leaders work to increaseorganizational trust levels, the human needs of wellbeing and fulfillment begin to takepriority; rules and structure become of less and less concern. Growth and growthproducing behaviors are valued. This is not to say that the manager or group leader mustbecome passive, nondirective, overly permissive, impotent, or servile. Rather, leaderswho practice TORI theory become assertive, warm, open, active, expressive of theirfeelings and needs, and involved. TORI leaders do not assume responsibility for theirgroups or for the organization. They realize that taking responsibility for otherscontributes to the perpetuation of traditional leaderfollower roles, of passivity, and ofdependency.REFERENCESDimock, H.G. (1987). Groups: Leadership and group development. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Gibb, J.R. (1978). Trust: A new view of personal and organizational development. Cardiff, CA: Omicron Press.SOURCEGibb, J.R. (1972). TORI theory and practice. In J.W. Pfeiffer & J.E. Jones (Eds.), The 1972 annual handbook forgroup facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.170 ❘❚ Check List for Group Leaders Practicing TORI TheoryLeader moves away from: Leader moves toward:■ Roleplaying, impersonal behavior;■ Relationships based on roles, suchas leadermember or membermember;■ Screened responses; acting only inways deemed appropriate,relevant, helpful, or professional;■ Stereotyped views of others;viewing others only as clients,patients, or members;■ Concern for changing, curing, orremedying “deficient” people;■ Behavior that is consistent with theleader’s theory of action, training,or group growth;■ Abstraction, generalities, andprinciples;■ Evaluative or moral judgments;■ A “then” rather than “now”perspective;■ Other’s limitations;■ Punishments and rewards;■ Legal concerns, norms, andcontrols;■ Fears, cautiousness, andconservation;■ Words, semantics, and speech■ Disclosing, nonrole behavior;■ Responses that reveal the leader’sfeelings and perceptions;■ Interpersonal relationships;■ Spontaneous behavior; reacting tothings as they happen;■ Belief that all people are unique andvaluable;■ Concern for growth anddevelopment in all relationships;■ Responses based on impulses,intuition, and gut feelings;■ Available, direct, and visiblebehavior;■ Concrete, primitive, and elementalfeelings and perceptions;■ Concern for the “now”;■ Focus on people’s strengths andgrowth processes; and■ Trust, risk, impulse, and liberation. ❚❘ 171❚❘ ANDRAGOGY: PRINCIPLES OF ADULT LEARNINGAndragogy, the concept of adult learning defined by Malcolm Knowles (1972, 1975,1978), is based on the assumption that adults want to learn. Unlike children in school,most adults have control over whether they show up for training and whether they stayor walk out. Andragogy relies on the use of cognitive theories, which deal with theacquisition of knowledge and are more humanistic in nature than stimulusresponsetheories, which rely on behavior modification and conditioning to achieve results.Pavlov (out of print), the well known researcher who conditioned his dog to salivate atthe ringing of a bell, employed a stimulusresponse theory. In contrast, cognitivetheories generally rely on the individual to learn through selfmotivation.The foremost of Knowles’ discoveries was that andragogy (adult learning) isdifferent from pedagogy (children’s learning). In particular, adults are aware of theirabilities and their experiences and they require more involvement in the learningprocess. Other characteristics of andragogy include the following (Goad, 1982; Hanson,1981):1. Learning is a process—as opposed to a series of finite, unrelated steps—that laststhroughout the entire life span of most people.2. For optimum transfer of learning, the learner must be actively involved in thelearning experience, not a passive recipient of information.3. Each learner must be responsible for his or her own learning.4. The learning process has an affective (emotional) as well as an intellectualcomponent.5. Adults learn by doing; they want to be involved. Regardless of the benefits ofcoaching, one should never merely demonstrate how to do something if an adultlearner actually can perform the task, even if it takes longer that way.6. Problems and examples must be realistic and relevant to the learners.7. Adults relate their learning to what they already know. It is wise to learnsomething about the backgrounds of the learners and to provide examples thatthey can understand in their own frames of reference.8. An informal environment works best. Trying to intimidate adults causesresentment and tension, and these inhibit learning.9. Variety stimulates. It is a good idea to try to appeal to all five of the learners’senses, particularly to those aspects identified by neurolinguistic programming:the visual, the kinesthetic, and the auditory. A change of pace and a variety oflearning techniques help to mitigate boredom and fatigue.172 ❘❚ 10. Learning flourishes in a winwin, nonjudgmental environment. The norms of thetraining setting are violated by tests and grading procedures. Checking learningobjectives is far more effective.11. The training facilitator is a change agent. The trainer’s role is to presentinformation or skills or to create an environment in which exploration can takeplace. The participants’ role is to take what is offered and apply it in a way thatis relevant and best for them. The trainer’s responsibility is to facilitate. Theparticipants’ responsibility is to learn.EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING: ANDRAGOGY APPLIEDTraditional childhood learning, especially in public education, is oriented toward theteacher imparting knowledge to the students. Adult learning is a process of one person(the trainer) providing the opportunity for another person (the learner) to acquireknowledge, skills, and/or awareness. Adults are more accustomed to exercising choice;they demand more choice in the matter of what they will believe, adopt, and apply. Forthese reasons, experiential learning has many advantages over the traditional classroomapproach, the primary one being that it is more effective. In fact, many educators nowbelieve that experiential learning works better with children as well.Because human resource development (HRD) professionals work exclusively withadults, most have a background in adult education, industrial/organizational psychology,or some other branch of the behavioral sciences. Clearly, adults’ learning processes aredifferent enough from children’s learning processes that HRD professionals mustunderstand the principles of andragogy in order to make adults’ learning experiencesprofitable and meaningful.REFERENCESGoad, T.W. (1982). Delivering effective training. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Hanson, P.G. (1981). Learning through groups: A trainer’s basic guide. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Knowles, M. (1972). The modern practice of adult education. Chicago: Association Press/Follett.Knowles, M. (1975). Selfdirected learning. Chicago: Association Press/Follett.Knowles, M. (1978). The adult learner: A neglected species (2nd ed.). Houston, TX: Gulf.Pavlov, I. (out of print). Experimental psychology.SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Design skills in human resource development (UATT series, Vol. 6).San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 173❚❘ COFACILITATINGCofacilitating a group is one of the most important and helpful steps in becoming aprofessional trainer. Even after one has gained proficiency in leading groups, cofacilitating is superior to working alone. There are, of course, some major advantages,some potential disadvantages, and some ways to avoid problems in cofacilitating.ADVANTAGES IN GROUP DEVELOPMENTOne of the most convincing reasons for working with a colleague as a cofacilitator is tocomplement each other’s styles. One person may have a groupdynamics focus while theother may have an intraindividual focus. Together they may be able to monitor andfacilitate individual and group development better than either of them could separately.Dealing with Heightened AffectIn some groups (e.g., personalgrowth groups or team building), highly emotionalsituations may arise, and the facilitator must be able to deal not only with persons whohave a heightened affect but also with the “audience effect.” It is difficult to help anindividual to work through deeply felt reactions and, at the same time, to assist othergroup members in integrating this experience in terms of its potential learning. In such asituation, it is always advantageous to have a cofacilitator. One facilitator can “workwith” the person(s) experiencing significant emotions, while the other facilitator assiststhe other participants in dealing with their reactions to the situation.Synergistic EffectThe remark that “two heads are better than one” often has been validated experientiallyin consensusseeking tasks. When people work together collaboratively, a synergisticeffect often develops. That is, the outcome of the deliberation exceeds the sum of thecontribution of the individuals. Cofacilitating can generate synergistic outcomesthrough the personal and professional interchange that results from working toward acommon task.ModelingOne way in which participants learn in training is by studying facilitators as behavioralmodels. Cofacilitating provides not only two models of individuals coping with theirown life situations, but it also offers a model for meaningful, effective, twopersonrelationships. The interaction between the cofacilitators gives participants a way to174 ❘❚ gauge dyadic relationships. The likelihood that the training will transfer to theparticipants’ backhome, everyday situations is increased.Reduced DependencyA recurring issue in training groups is the problem of dependency on the facilitator.Facilitators who work with many groups alone sometimes dread having repeatedly toface participants’ unresolved authority conflicts. With cofacilitators, the leadership isshared and, therefore, the dependency problem is dissipated somewhat.Appropriate PacingA facilitator can pace himself or herself more effectively when working with a partner.Observing and intervening in a group session is demanding, and the facilitatorsometimes is not able to relax enough to permit the process to emerge at its own rate.Cofacilitators can check each other’s timing of events and provide some respite fromthe detailed monitoring necessary to provide meaningful interventions.Sharp FocusA final advantage is that issues can be focused more sharply when they are seen by twofacilitators. Facilitators usually have “favorite” issues that are likely to emerge in theirgroups, and cofacilitating can offset biases.ADVANTAGES IN PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENTCofacilitating offers each partner support for his or her personal development.Facilitating can be a lonely activity; the opportunities for meaningful personaldevelopment are lessened by the complexity of the facilitator’s monitoring andintervening tasks. With cofacilitators, each can better work his or her personaldevelopment issues both in and out of the group setting.Another major advantage of cofacilitating is the opportunity for professionalgrowth. Participants usually are not able to offer meaningful feedback on facilitatorcompetence. When facilitators work together, they can provide each other with a richsource of professional reactions. In this way, each training experience becomes apracticum for the facilitators involved.POTENTIAL DISADVANTAGESDifferent OrientationsSome dangers are inherent in cofacilitation, and it is necessary to be aware of potentialproblems. Individuals with different orientations—theoretical, technical, personal—caneasily impair each other’s effect in the group. It is, for example, difficult to imagine a ❚❘ 175good melding of a Tavistockoriented “consultant” and an Esalentrained facilitator.Such partners would likely discover themselves working at crosspurposes.Extra EnergyCofacilitating takes energy. Not only are the facilitators occupied with the developmentof the participants and of the group, but they also have to expend effort to develop andmaintain the relationship that may be pivotal to the success of the training. The trainingsubgoals include not only the facilitators’ personal and professional development, butalso their relationship with each other.Threat and CompetitionBecause two professionals in a group may constitute more of a threat to individualparticipants than one would, they may see cofacilitators as colluding with each other.The “clinic” sessions that cofacilitators engage in between training sessions can arousesuspicion and create an emotional distance between the facilitators and the participants.Cofacilitators can become competitive with each other, too. Although they maydeny any concern for popularity, they may, perhaps without knowing it, engage inbehavior that meets other needs besides those inherent in the training.OvertrainingIt clearly is possible to “overtrain” a group, particularly with the presence of two activefacilitators. It is important to recognize that too many interventions may stifle bothparticipation and learning. This is especially true if facilitators play the “twoonone”game, simultaneously attempting to interpret and facilitate one participant. Groupmember helpfulness is one of the most potent dimensions of group training events. Afteran initiation period, participants—as well as facilitators—can make meaningfulinterventions. It is important that the facilitators stay out of the way in order to permitthis to occur.Blind SpotsCofacilitators may have mutual blind spots in observing interand intraindividualdynamics, and it is possible to reinforce each other’s failure to attend to particular areas.If cofacilitators are similar in their theory and technique, it is quite likely that they willpay attention to the same data. Thus, they may neglect (or pay less attention to) otherdata, thereby increasing the possibility that they will fail to notice significant learningopportunities that are outside their normal purview.A Misleading ModelIn any human situation, there is the possibility that people will react to assumptionsrather than to clear understandings of each other. This, of course, can occur with co176 ❘❚ facilitators if they are not clear about each other’s positions on recurring and predictablegroup issues. In this event, they can provide an ineffective model for the participants.When the relationship between cofacilitators is tense, mistrustful, and/or closed,the modeling is negative. Participants may mistakenly conclude that what “works” inhuman relations is to behave in ways directly opposed to the values on which HRD isbased.Different RhythmsA final potential disadvantage in cofacilitating is that the facilitators’ interventionrhythms may be different. One may intervene on a “beat” of ten, while the otherintervenes on a beat of three. The facilitator who is slower to react or who hesitates inthe hope that the participants will take responsibility for the maintenance of the groupmay find obtrusive the partner who intervenes more rapidly. Disjunctive contacts thatmay result between the cofacilitators provide a negative model for the participants.AVOIDING THE DANGERSFacilitators who are considering joining together to work with a group can engage in anumber of activities to obviate these potential disadvantages. The obvious first step is toshare orientations to and experiences with similar kinds of group situations.A second way of avoiding the problems of ineffective cofacilitation is to solicitfeedback frequently and regularly. As a check on behavioral perception, there is nosubstitute for honest and straightforward reactions.In order to counteract one facilitator’s tendency to overtrain the group and to cutinto the rhythm of interventions of the other, it may be useful to count to ten—ortwenty—before intervening. If any participant speaks during that time, the count isbegun again at zero.It is important that the cofacilitators be honest both in presenting themselves and insoliciting feedback from participants. In this way, they can deemphasize the impact oftheir presence in the group. Each cofacilitator needs to monitor the reasons for his orher behavior in the group. Each intervention should be “located,” that is, the facilitatorsneed to know what they are observing, what they are responding to, what the needs inthe group seem to be, and what the intervention is designed to elicit. Otherwise, it islikely that the intervention will meet the personal needs of a facilitator at the expense ofthe needs of the participants.Testing AssumptionsIt seems axiomatic that all assumptions need to be tested continually. Facilitators clearlyare not above making errors in communication. It is critical that they check the bases oftheir professional judgments. ❚❘ 177If cofacilitators experience difficulty in working together, they may solicit a thirdparty as a consultant. This activity can produce a great deal of learning not only forthemselves but also for any observers.Personal AwarenessIn confronting the potential disadvantages of cofacilitating, partners can create forthemselves opportunities to experiment with and to enlarge both their personaldevelopment and their professional expertise. The inventory on the following page canhelp facilitators to become more aware of their assumptions, preferences, andmotivations in facilitating groups.COORDINATING WITH THE COFACILITATORIn planning to cofacilitate a training event, there are several things that trainers can doto enhance the process. The first is to establish a personal connection with each other forat least an hour to share information and expectations. This includes sharing responsesto the inventory in this section, discussing professional experiences, and explaining whatpersonal issues each anticipates working on in the group. It is a very good idea to statesome of your cofacilitation patterns and to indicate the behaviors that your cofacilitatormight see as idiosyncratic. It also would be helpful if each of you were to note issuesthat have arisen in your past work with other facilitators.When you have shared this personal information, it is time to define together thetraining goals of the event on which you are about to work; to reach consensus about theexpectations and experiences of the participants; and to discuss your reactions to themakeup of the group, its size, and any other special considerations. Then work to reachagreement on the following issues.Operating Norms1. Where will each of you sit during the sessions? When presenting and notpresenting?2. Who will open and end each session?3. Are there differences in status between you? If so, how will this be handled?How will it be presented to the participants?4. Will there be openended or specific time periods for starting, breaks, etc.? Willyou end at specific times?5. What are your preferences for attendance for yourselves and for the participants?Will either of you be free to leave the group or will you both remain part of thegroup during all sessions?6. How much “thereandthen” discussion will be allowed? How do you define“hereandnow”?178 ❘❚ Learning Style: (Write a statement of approximately one hundred words to explain your concept ofhow people learn.)Personal Motivation: (Complete the following sentence: I am involved in training because . . .)Expectations: (What things do you expect to happen in the type of group in which you will beworking? What would be the best thing that could happen? What would be the worst thing?Intervention Style: (What are your typical responses in the type of group in which you will beworking?)1. When starting the group, I usually . . .2. When someone talks too much, I usually . . .3. When the group is silent, I usually . . .4. When an individual in the group is silent for a long period of time, I usually . . .5. When someone becomes upset of cries, I usually . . .6. When someone comes in late, I usually . . .7. When someone introduces outside information about family or friends into the groupcontext, I usually . . .8. When group members are excessively polite and unwilling to confront one another, Iusually . . .9. When there is conflict in the group, I usually . . .10. When there is a group attack on one individual, I usually . . .11. When group members discuss sexual feelings about one another or about me, I usually . . .12. If there is physical violence, I usually . . .My favorite interventions in this type of group are:My typical “intervention rhythm” (fast/slow) is:My style is characteristically more (a) nurturing or (b) confrontingThe thing that makes me most uncomfortable in groups like this is:Other information about me that might be useful to a cofacilitator (e.g., FIROB scores, social style,NLP preference, training/learning style, etc.) is:Facilitator Inventory ❚❘ 1797. How (and possibly when) will you make theory inputs, and which of you will dowhat?8. How will you work to facilitate transfer of learning and backhome application?Will there be followup and, if so, how will it be done?CoFacilitating Style1. Where, when, and how will you deal with issues between you?2. Can you agree to disagree? How much tolerance is there for differences?3. Will you encourage or discourage conflict?4. How much of your behavior will be role determined and how much will bepersonal and individual?5. Is it possible to use each other’s energy; that is, can one of you be “out” whilethe other is “in”?6. How will you establish and maintain growthproducing norms?7. What is not negotiable with each of you as a cofacilitator?Ethics1. What are your responsibilities if someone in the group has psychologicaldifficulty? Are you responsible for referral? What responsibilities do you haveafter the training experience is over?2. What responsibilities, if any, do you have for screening participants?3. Are you adequately qualified? How will you communicate your qualifications tothe participants?4. What are your ethical standards with regard to issues such as sexism, sexuality,prejudice, racial slurs, and so on?After sharing information and discussing it, it might be a good idea to take a breakin order to review and consider the information that you have received from each other,then meet again to discuss any items that need clarification.CLINICS“Clinicking” is the term that some trainers use for the brief, “howarewedoing, whatshouldweconsiderchanging” meetings that cofacilitators have during the breaks in atraining event and at the end of each day. Some of the questions that you may want toask are as follows:180 ❘❚ Diagnosis1. On a scale of one to ten, how did things go in this session?2. What is happening in the group(s)?3. Are there any problems that need to be addressed? If so, what are we going to doabout them?Soliciting Feedback1. What did I do that was effective?2. What did I do that was ineffective?3. How am I doing as a cofacilitator?4. To what degree are we colluding, that is, not sharing all the information wehave?Renegotiation1. As we reexamine our contract, is there anything that we need to renegotiate?2. How are we feeling about each other?3. What is each of us going to do in the next session?Finally, it is important to have a debriefing session at the end of the training eventin order to conduct a final clinic and to discuss what happened, what was or should havebeen done, and what each of you learned from the experience. The following questionsmay be helpful at this time:1. To what extent were the training goals achieved?2. Under what conditions would we work together again?3. What are our personal and professional learnings from this event?4. What do you see that I can do personally to improve my training competence?SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Presentation and evaluation skills in human resource development (UATTSeries, Vol. 7). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 181❚❘ THE CYCLE OF CHANGEKurt Lewin (1947) studied the issue of personal learning and change and noted that mostpeople are in a “frozen” state in terms of their openness to learning and change. Eachperson carries his or her own set of unexamined attitudes and habitual modes ofperceiving and responding. Lewin described the cycle of change as unfreezing (openingup, for some reason, to the possibility of learning or changing), change (a learning ofsome kind), and refreezing (using the changed habits—attitudes or behaviors—in placeof the old ones). A simple figure can be used to illustrate this concept.UNFREEZINGPeople in organizations often do things in the same ways for years. Even if they do notlike the ways in which things are done, people tend to prefer the known over theunknown and will resist change. Even in experiential learning groups, unless theparticipants have benefited from a considerable amount of previous training, they willcome to the event in a “frozen” state. Before people can undergo change, they mustunfreeze their typical attitudes and behaviors—a process that can be very threatening.Sometimes unfreezing is the result of trying something that clearly does not workbecause the consequences are so negative; one then decides that it might be done betteranother way. Sometimes the change is imposed from the outside; in this case, there ismore resistance on the part of the person who is targeted for change. In order to reducethe threat of change and the resulting resistance, people must examine their old attitudesand/or behaviors and decide that they are willing to experiment to see if some changeswould be beneficial.CHANGEThe atmosphere of the training group is important in facilitating change. The process isgreatly enhanced when an atmosphere of support, mutual risk taking, and trust exists.The democracy and intimacy that are part of traininggroup process support selfexamination and reduce the risk of trying out new responses. In fact, the mutual processamong participants creates a norm that makes change desirable, rather than a sign ofweakness or failure. As participants become involved in the training group, they begin toshare its responsibilities, and the group becomes more cohesive. Fears about changingare reduced, and risk taking is rewarded.Depending on the training objectives, change can be facilitated by a number oftechniques. Primarily it involves the participants examining some aspect of themselvesor the area of focus, experimenting with new ways of thinking or behaving, learning182 ❘❚ new concepts that they can relate to their existing knowledge and use as models for newways of thinking or behaving, and practicing the change with feedback and support fromthe facilitator and the other group members. Many different training technologies can beused to aid in this process.REFREEZINGRefreezing is the process by which the new attitudes and behaviors are integrated intothe participants’ own ways of thinking and being. This integration actually is not afrozen state, because the process of change is a cycle: once experienced it opens up theindividual to experiment and change again. The extent to which this takes place dependson the extent to which the person identifies with and internalizes the change. This, inturn, is dependent on the degree and quality of support and reinforcement the personreceives. If one’s changed attitudes and behaviors lead to more satisfying and effectiverelationships or a greater sense of selfawareness, or if others provide positive feedback,there is an incentive to continue the change.REFERENCELewin, K. (1947). Frontiers in group dynamics: I. Concept, method, and reality in social sciences: Social equilibriaand social change. Human Relations, 1(1), 541.SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Design skills in human relations training (UATT Series, Vol. 6). San Diego,CA: Pfeiffer & Company.The Cycle of Change184 ❘❚ ❚❘ DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSISFOR A NEEDS ASSESSMENTThe preferred way to answer the question “Why is the training being conducted?” is bydoing a needs assessment. It is one of the most basic skills in establishing objectives fora training event. Such an assessment can provide clarity about the expectations of theclient system and can help to reconcile them with the needs of the participants (e.g., doyou want skill training or awareness expansion, team building or communicationtraining? What are the priorities? Can these be accomplished in time allowed?) Therealso can be several other beneficial outcomes, including the following (Warshauer,1988):■ Increasing the commitment of management and potential participants to thetraining and development effort;■ Increasing the visibility of the training function;■ Clarifying crucial organizational issues;■ Providing for the best use of limited resources;■ Providing new program and design ideas; and■ Formulating strategies for how to proceed with the training efforts.It is not always possible to do a formal or fullscale needs assessment (some clientsare sure that they know what is needed and will insist that you do just that), but it almostalways is preferable. As an absolute minimum, one can conduct an informal needsassessment, i.e., obtain the answers (from at least a sample of the client population) tothe following questions:■ Why is the training being conducted? What is the need?■ What is expected to change as a result of this training (e.g., knowledge, skills, orattitudes—for individuals, groups, or a system)?■ What will be the impact of this training (on individuals, groups, the system)?■ How will the learnings be reinforced?■ How will results be monitored/evaluated?A number of techniques are available for obtaining answers to these and otherpertinent questions. The facilitator must consider each method and determine which (orwhich combination) is most appropriate to the particular client system. ❚❘ 185DATACOLLECTION TECHNIQUESSeveral methods can be used to collect data from the sources that are available. Somerequire the involvement of individuals or groups; others, such as observation and reviewof existing data, require less direct involvement. Frequently, two or more techniques willbe used in concert (e.g., a survey questionnaire and interviews), thus expanding therange and type of information gathered. The following is a partial listing of techniquesfor collecting information. For more complete discussions of datacollection techniques,refer to Bouchard (1976) and Nadler (1977).IndividuallyOriented MethodsInterviewsInstruments (Questionnaires,Surveys; etc.)TestsGroupOriented Methods Sensing InterviewsCommitteesDelphi TechniqueNominalGroup TechniqueBrainstormingObservation Systematic ObservationComplete ObservationParticipant ObservationReview of Existing Data SensitivityOriginalityIndividually Oriented MethodsMost datacollection techniques involve either the people who are to be trained orindividuals who have frequent contact with them. These techniques includequestionnaires, interviews, and tests. Each method has unique features that influence itsappropriateness.InterviewsThe interview is one of the most commonly used methods for gathering data, but it ismost appropriate when the following conditions exist:■ When the information to be shared is of a personal or sensitive nature;■ When some of the questions to be asked may need to be clarified or explained;■ When some of the interviewees’ answers may need to be clarified or explained;■ When the data collector does not know all the issues, so cannot design aninstrument that will pinpoint them;■ When the interviewer may want to change gears or pursue topics further duringthe questioning, based on the information that is received;186 ❘❚ ■ When the group of people who will provide the information is small enough toallow oneonone interviews;■ When there is time to conduct oneonone interviews with all those who holdrelevant information, as well as time to review the responses and extract relevantdata;■ When the data collector has the skill and means to collate, tabulate, analyze, andinterpret the various data that will be obtained.It often is best if the person who will be conducting the interview is a neutral thirdparty, i.e., one of the facilitators who will be designing the training, not theinterviewee’s boss or someone with an affiliation within the organization. This willincrease the likelihood of an honest response and can help to eliminate any suspicion ofbias. It must be remembered, however, that there are some people who will view anyoutsider as a “spy.” It is helpful if the credentials of the interviewer and the reason whyhe or she was selected can be published in the system prior to the actual interviewingprocess. It is then up to the interviewer to establish a comfortable atmosphere once eachinterview has begun.The following is a basic outline of a typical interview process:1. Starting Out. One problem associated with datagathering interviews isdetermining whom to interview. If a training program is to be conducted within anorganization, it probably is a good idea to interview a crosssection of the prospectiveparticipants (and their managers, if the participants themselves are not all managers) aswell as the person who has arranged for the training. Once you have determined whowill be interviewed, provide the people to be interviewed with enough notice of ordetails about the meeting for them to prepare themselves adequately. An unpreparedinterviewee usually can offer only opinions, unsubstantiated by “hard” data. Suchinformation also may be superficial, especially if the interviewee is relatively unfamiliarwith the subject or the interviewer is not highly skilled in interviewing techniques.When selecting a room for the interview, pay attention to the surroundings. Seatingshould be comfortable but not too comfortable. The person being interviewed should notbe faced with bright light from a window or other source. There should be a table orother writing surface for taking notes.Plan the interview time so as to eliminate interruptions. This may mean schedulingit early or late. Be there a little early to organize your thoughts and materials, and starton time. If possible, know the name and position of the person to be interviewed and hisor her relationship to the rest of the potential participant group. Welcome the person byname, offer a seat, and introduce yourself, stating why you are there. State the purposeof the interview, who else will be interviewed, and how the data will be used.Next, describe the norms that you would like to establish, e.g., honesty and risktaking. Make it clear that what the interviewee says will be anonymous but notconfidential, that is, the data from all interviews will be tabulated and reported, but“who” said “what” will not be revealed. Encourage the person to try to relax and to say ❚❘ 187what he or she really thinks or feels. Ask the person to agree to tell you if you do not askquestions clearly. Then explain the procedure: say that you will take notes (or record theanswers) while the person is talking to be sure that you get the real meaning of what issaid, rather than relying on your memory of it. Obtain written or recorded permission ifyou will be recording the person’s responses on tape. Say that you will review yournotes with the person at the end of the interview in order to check the phrasing. Finally,estimate the amount of time that the interview will take.2. Asking Questions. Prepare the questions that you will ask ahead of time, so thatwhen actually conducting the interviews you ask everyone the same basic questions. (Ofcourse, during the course of a particular interview, you can ask the individual additionalquestions to clarify an answer or to follow new, pertinent trains of thought.) Check tomake sure that you understand the questions that you will be asking.Put the questions in a logical sequence, starting with less complicated and lessthreatening questions first. Ask openended questions, such as “why . . .,” “how . . .,”“what . . .,” and “what do you think about . . .?” This allows the person to explain facts,details, and reasons while answering the question. Do not phrase questions negativelybecause this could be seen as biased; make them neutral. For example, rather thansaying “Don’t you think that . . .,” ask “How do you think . . .?” It is important not tobias the question or lead the interviewee into any particular type of response.While the interviewee is talking, take notes, using the person’s own words. Try tomaintain an interested, encouraging appearance and—above all—do not criticize theperson’s answers, rationale, or phrasing. If it is necessary to ask questions ofclarification, make it clear that you are doing so merely in order to be sure that youunderstand accurately what the person is trying to say. This is a good time to practiceactive listening. Watch for verbal and nonverbal cues that could indicate that theinterviewee is reluctant to discuss a particular subject, uncomfortable with the interview,overly eager to press a certain point, confused, tired, etc. You may need to change yourmanner of questioning or take a different tack.If unfavorable information is introduced, there always is the fear that the source ofthe information will be revealed. Unless an atmosphere of trust is developed with theinterviewee, the information shared may be slanted. It can take time to develop atrusting relationship. Some people never will “open up” to an interviewer, and manypeople will tell only what they think the interviewer wants to hear. Information acquiredunder such circumstances should be evaluated carefully and compared with dataacquired from other sources.3. Finishing Up. As you approach the end of the interview, wind down thecomplexity of the questions. Ask the interviewee if there is anything important about thetopic that you did not ask or anything else that the person wants to say. Be sure to leaveenough time to summarize the person’s comments so that he or she can check yourunderstanding. Finally, thank the person for participating and reiterate what the nextsteps will be (that the data will be tabulated, how it will be used and by whom, etc.).188 ❘❚ Leave enough time to complete your notes before the next interview is scheduled tobegin.InstrumentsThe questionnaire, survey, or rating scale is another commonly used method ofcollecting data. Any instrument should be checked for its ability to measure what isdesired (validity) and the consistency, over time, of the ratings obtained (reliability).Items or questions on the instrument form should not be phrased so that the answersreceived are biased. Closedended questions limit the responses an individual can make.For example, if the choices on a questionnaire are limited to “team development,”“communication training,” and “performance appraisal,” but the respondent actuallythinks that the problem is a lack of organizational direction, it is unlikely that therespondent will write in “more organizational direction” even if a space is left for“other.” Another way in which bias can be introduced is through leading questions,those that indicate to the respondents how they are expected to answer. For example, ifasked whether assistance in improving leadership abilities would be useful, who wouldsay no? This does not, however, mean that leadership training actually is a crucial need.For a complete discussion of how to select, develop, and use instruments (includingorganizational surveys and instruments used for research), refer to Using Instruments inHuman Resource Development (Pfeiffer & Ballew, 1988a).TestsTests also can be used to assess the skills, abilities, or perspectives of an individual fordiagnostic purposes. Tests are probably the least used of the assessment techniques.They are used primarily by designers of training programs to determine howaccomplished the participants are before starting the program. This avoids repeatinginformation that is already known or assuming too much prior knowledge. One of themajor disadvantages of tests is that they frequently are perceived as threatening; as aresult, people become quite defensive about their scores. If it is necessary to use a testprior to a skilltraining program, the purpose of the test should be stated explicitly.GroupOriented MethodsIn contrast to individually oriented methods of data collection, grouporiented methodsallow people to receive assistance from other group members to support their views.Such techniques also allow members to “piggyback” on the ideas of others, generatingexpanded information. However, they also can limit opinions that do not represent themajority viewpoint. This limitation can be an advantage or a disadvantage, depending onwhether the researcher wants a variety of ideas or ideas common to the majority ofgroup members. The most commonly used techniques for collecting data from groupsare sensing interviews, focus groups, committees, the Delphi technique, the nominalgroup technique, and brainstorming. ❚❘ 189Sensing InterviewsSensing interviews may be preferable to individual interviews in terms of timeutilization and group support of ideas, but they do have potential weaknesses. First, aswith most datacollection methods, respondents must believe that their answers will beused in the intended manner. Trust of the leader and the other group members is aprerequisite to an honest, open discussion. Second, people who were not invited to bemembers of the group may think that they were excluded deliberately; thus, they mayfeel threatened. An explanation of the purpose of the sensing interview should be madeto alleviate the fears of such people.Focus GroupsThis technique is used widely in marketing. A group of customers, users, or consumersis identified (often based on certain characteristics) and brought together to providefeedback on products, services, etc. It is much like a customer survey, but therespondents are not selected randomly. One pitfall of this method is that people may notbe totally honest in their answers, e.g., they may say that they travel to Europefrequently because they wish they did or want to be seen as sophisticated. Recent studiesindicate that focusgroup responses tend to be more reliable if the respondents arerewarded in some way (a nominal payment or gift), because they then feel aresponsibility to respond honestly.CommitteesCommittees may be ad hoc or permanent advisory groups whose purpose is to provideinput and guidance in program design. Alternatively, functional committees can provideinsight into particular problems. Often, committee members can see skill deficiencies,attitudinal barriers, or other factors that hinder performance. Because of their expertise,they also may be able to specify what would be most useful in overcoming particularproblems.The Delphi TechniqueThe Delphi technique (Bunning, 1979) is especially useful if it is necessary to obtaininformation from individuals in a variety of locations. Generally, the process starts withthe selection of a panel of individuals who are knowledgeable about a particular area ofconcern. These individuals are requested to identify the major aspects of a specifiedissue. These issues are then integrated into a questionnaire that is sent back to the panelof experts, who are asked to indicate the extent of the problem. The responses aresummarized and returned to the panel members with another questionnaire. This timethe experts are asked to complete the questionnaire and to explain their rationale fordeviating from the mean group response on each question. The process reveals both thegroup members’ opinions and reasons for differences of opinion.190 ❘❚ The NominalGroup TechniqueThe nominalgroup technique (Delbecq, Van de Ven, & Gustafson, 1975; Ford, 1975) issomewhat similar to the Delphi technique. The major difference between the twomethods is that in the NGT, the panel members meet as a group to discuss the variousissues. The individuals participating in an NGT activity are given a subject or theme andasked to write their thoughts about the topic on a sheet of paper. The next step is toproceed around the group, asking each member to share one thought or idea with thegroup, in turn. These ideas are recorded without discussion until all ideas are shared andrecorded.The major advantages of the NGT are that it ensures that every group membercontributes to the generation of ideas and that multiple facets of ideas are surfaced. Italso helps to gain commitment from the participants because they have had equalopportunities to contribute and to evaluate ideas.BrainstormingBrainstorming is similar to the NGT. In this approach, ideas are voiced as they occurand are recorded without discussion of their merit. This allows participants to build onother members’ ideas. Quantity of ideas is the first concern in brainstorming. Afternumerous ideas are generated and no new ideas are forthcoming, the discussion turns tothe feasibility of the ideas. The major advantage of this approach is that “piggybacking”of ideas can occur. The technique does not, however, assure that all members willparticipate.ObservationA third group of techniques used to collect data (and to verify data collected by othermethods) is observation (Bouchard, 1976). The techniques range from observing asample of behavior to some form of “undercover” observation by a concealed observer.The advantage of observation is that behavior is more natural and people are notrequired to provide the information directly. They continue to function as they wouldnormally. Ideally, this would decrease the intervention impact caused by the datacollection process. Still, observation is likely to have some impact on behavior. Subjectsbeing observed may “perform” for the observer and thus bias the data.Systematic ObservationSystematic observation techniques frequently require a sampling of the behavior inquestion. For example, interactions between certain people could be observed on arandom basis. After a series of observations, a pattern would evolve, showing whatproblems typically were encountered. If the observation revealed particular sources ofproblems, it might be deemed worthwhile to design a program (e.g., training incommunication, listening, problem solving, conflict management, negotiation, etc.) todeal with the sources of the problems. ❚❘ 191Complete ObservationComplete observation occurs when the observer openly uses a videotape camera, filmcamera, audio recorder, or other such technique to record relevant behavior. Thismethod can yield massive amounts of information. It also can require large expendituresof time and money.This technique can be used within a training program to record participant behaviorduring an activity. The primary purpose of such a recording would be to allow thetrainer to discuss relevant issues with the trainees without interrupting the dynamics ofthe original session. However, it also would allow the trainers to analyze the sessionlater, in order to improve the design of the training program. This type of observationalso can be useful in analyzing meetings and other group events prior to and after atraining intervention.Participant ObservationIn a final method of observation, the observer also is a participant. This may require theresearcher to actually interact in a taskrelated way with one or more members of thegroup in order to learn what is involved in doing the work. Participation gives the datacollector added credibility as well as relevant examples.In another version of participant observation, the observer surreptitiously observesthe group. Ideally, this method reduces the bias caused when the subjects realize thatthey are being observed. However, because the observer is intervening in the group’sactivities, his or her actions can bias the results. A potentially more serious issue is oneof ethics and credibility. One must consider how people will respond to data gathered bysuch means and whether they would trust a leader or trainer who used such techniques togather data. This method would be especially counterproductive if the program based onthe data were to require openness and trust among the participants.Review of Existing DataA review of existing data is useful in gathering information because the information iscollected after the action, so there is no danger of biasing the behavior. An example ofthis technique is a review of critical incidents or performance evaluations to determineemployee strengths and weaknesses. It may be possible to trace a number of incidents tocommon causes and, thus, to identify potential problem areas.Although a variety of data are available in most organizations, there do not seem tobe wellestablished techniques for collecting such data. Information collected often is inthe form of case studies, which may be used to demonstrate a point during a program,indicate needs for program development, or verify the results of information acquiredthrough other means. The keys to the use of this datacollection technique seem to besensitivity and originality. One must be very sensitive to the type, quality, and initialpurpose of the information being reviewed. Creativity and originality in interpreting and192 ❘❚ analyzing the data can lead to new insights. Historical data also can be used tosupplement and confirm data collected from other sources and by other means.DATA ANALYSISAfter the sources of needed information are identified and the data are collected, it isnecessary to analyze and interpret the data. The procedures that frequently are usedinclude some form of gap analysis, scaling methods, weighting formulas, and consensus.These procedures can be used to analyze data collected by a variety of techniques, andmore than one procedure can be used to analyze a group of data. These techniques are asfollows.Gap AnalysisScaling Methods: RatingRankingsNominalGroup TechniqueWeighting FormulasConsensus: VotingCompromiseGap AnalysisA fairly easy method of analyzing data is examining the gap between where theorganization or group “is” on a particular issue and where it should be or where it wouldlike to be. The differences between actual and desired states indicate potential areas forprogram development. For example, a difference between 50 percent turnover for aparticular firm or group versus a 10 percent average turnover for the industry wouldsignal a potential problem. Once such differences are identified, it is necessary to attachpriorities to the gaps to guide program development.Scaling MethodsScaling methods such as measurements on a continuum or rankings can be used toestablish the relative significance of issues. Typical scaling procedures include thefollowing.Rating ScalesScales frequently are used to show the importance or magnitude of various issues to theperson completing the scale. The most frequently used is the Likert scale, on which therespondent indicates agreement on a continuum ranging from “strongly agree” to“strongly disagree.” Other frequently used measurements include ranges of importanceor desirability. ❚❘ 193The semantic differential rating scale is used to rate bipolar attributes, for example:A variation of this technique is to ask the respondent to mark a scale to indicatewhere the respondent, group, or organization is and where it should be on particularissues. This helps to identify major gaps between the current and desired states (i.e.,training needs). Other types of rating scales include forcedchoice scales andsociometric ratings (rankings).RankingsVarious data can be rank ordered in terms of their importance, desirability, frequency,etc. Individual rankings then can be combined to establish the relative value that thegroup places on each issue. Sociometric ratings (of individuals) allow comparison (e.g..who rated whom or what lowest and highest), thereby generating more data than just theindividual rankings themselves. The design and use of these scaling methods aredescribed in more detail in Pfeiffer and Ballew (1988a).The NominalGroup TechniqueIn the nominalgroup technique, the participants in a group rank the items identified inthe group discussion in order of importance. The responses of all participants arecompiled, and the results are reported to the group. The group ranking then can be usedto establish priorities for discussion, training, or other program design.Weighting FormulasOne of the problems in using scales is that no mechanism is provided to indicate therelative differences in the importance of the scales. Weighting formulas allow therespondents or diagnostician to attach more value to one scale than another. A commonweighting method is to ask the respondent to indicate how important a particularattribute (skill, attitude, need) is, how frequently the attribute is encountered, or howdeficient the subject feels in terms of the attribute. In one example, a study askedmanagers to indicate how important a particular competency was for their subordinates,how frequently the subordinates needed the competency, and how well prepared thesubordinates were in that competency. These three responses were then combined todetermine the need for a program to develop the competency. This study also identifiedsubstantially different priorities for job competencies among industries—againsupporting the need to customize training programs rather than interpreting trainingneeds to fit an existing program.194 ❘❚ ConsensusOne of the most commonly used methods of reaching agreement is consensus (amajority or all members agree on an issue, a ranking, or a next step). This is not to beconfused with voting, compromising or “horse trading.” Although the latter often areeasy methods for decision making, they may not include a careful weighing of all therelevant information.VotingIf a group uses a nonquantitative method to collect information, a vote of the membersoften is used to determine the implications of the data collected. However, one or twopersons or issues frequently dominate the discussion, or individuals with high status—such as experts or top managers—often voice their views on the subject. Unless there isinformation that clearly contradicts these highpowered views, the subsequent vote andrecommended actions will likely follow along.CompromiseIf there are a number of strong feelings about an issue, a common solution is acompromise. This often results in a nonthreatening, suboptimum recommendation that isacceptable to all but will do little to solve the problem. In fact, a compromise programcould worsen the problem by raising the expectations of participants. Then, if theexpected results are not achieved, the program, its sponsor, its designers, and itsfacilitators look bad.SummaryTo design a training program or intervention, the program designer should consider thepossible sources of data, how the data will be collected, and how the data will beanalyzed. Although it is possible to build a program based on an interview with asupervisor or a few potential participants, a wider perspective is helpful in assessing theneeds that the program should attempt to meet. In general, the more sources ofinformation, techniques of data collection, and methods of data analysis that can be usedto diagnose a problem, the better the understanding one has of the problem or trainingneed.REFERENCESBouchard, T.J. (1976). Field research methods: Interviewing, questionnaires, participant observation, systematicobservation, unobtrusive measures. In M.D. Dunnett (Ed.), Handbook of industrial and organizationalpsychology. New York: John Wiley & Sons.Bunning, R.L. (1979). The Delphi technique: A projection tool for serious inquiry. In J.E. Jones & J.W. Pfeiffer(Eds.), The 1979 annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 195Delbecq, A.L., Van de Ven, A.H., & Gustafson, D.H. (1975). Group techniques for program planning. Glenview,IL: Scott, Foresman.Ford, D.L., Jr. (1975). Nominal group technique: An applied group problemsolving activity. In J.E. Jones & J.W.Pfeiffer (Eds.), The 1975 annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Nadler, D.A. (1977). Feedback and organization development: Using databased methods. Reading, MA:AddisonWesley.Pfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988a). Using instruments in human resource development (UATT Series, Vol. 2).San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Warshauer, S. (1988). Inside training and development: Creating effective programs. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988b). Design skills in human resource development (UATT Series, Vol. 2). SanDiego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.196 ❘❚ ❚❘ THE EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING CYCLEExperiential learning occurs when a person engages in some activity, looks back at theactivity critically, abstracts some useful insight from the analysis, and puts the result towork through a change in behavior. Of course, this process is experienced spontaneouslyin everyone’s ordinary life. People never stop learning; with each new experience, weconsciously or unconsciously ask ourselves questions such as, “How did that feel?,”“What really happened?,” or “What do I need to remember about that?” It is aninductive process: proceeding from observation rather than from a priori “truth” (as inthe deductive process).Learning can be defined as a change in behavior as a result of experience or input,and that is the usual purpose of training. The effectiveness of experiential learning isbased on the fact that nothing is more relevant to us than ourselves. One’s own reactionsto, observations about, and understanding of something are more important thansomeone else’s opinion about it. Research has shown that people learn best by “doing.”One remembers best what one knows better than one remembers what one knows about.STRUCTURED EXPERIENCESLearning experiences are generated naturally in daily life, but they also can be “set up”to provide opportunities for specific types of learning. A structured experience providesa framework in which the inductive process can be facilitated. The experience isstructured so that some aspects of the situation are emphasized and others are not. A setof conditions is established that affects the participants’ roles and the process ofinteraction. The facilitator may introduce a task to be done by the participant group; thistask constitutes the dynamics of the learning situation. Participants experience theopportunities and the constraints of the situation and the human behaviors that aregenerated by the particular set of conditions. One of the major strengths of this approachis that it can be adapted to many situations or content areas. Once the particular learningobjectives are identified, many types of activities can be selected to facilitate theirachievement.After participants have completed the activity or task, they are asked to end thatphase of the experience and to process, or discuss, what took place. Within the particularfocus, the participants discover meaning for themselves and validate their own learning.The significant thing is that the discussion of feelings, patterns, and implications thatconstitute the learning phases of the experience are outside the boundary of the artificialgroup activity. The facilitator helps the members to abstract, from among the aspects ofthe situation, those elements that capture the essence of the situation. These elementsthen are generalized to situations in the real world. Learnings about the possible effects ❚❘ 197of a variety of behaviors can be obtained. The aim is for participants to be able to chooseamong behaviors when confronted with similar situations in the future.THE EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING CYCLEThe steps in a structured experience follow those of a theoretical cycle (see illustration).The ActivityPhaseSharingReactions andObservationPlanningEffective Useof LearningDevelopingReal WorldPrinciplesDiscussingPatterns andDynamicsThe Experiential Learning CycleExperiencingExperiencing occurs naturally in all life situations. In the training setting, participantsare exposed to a particular type of experience. This initial stage is the datageneratingpart of a structured experience. It is the step that so often is associated with “games” orfun. Obviously, if the process stops after this stage, all learning is left to chance, and thefacilitator has not completed the task.Almost any activity that involves either selfassessment or interpersonal interactioncan be used as the “doing” part of experiential learning. The following are commonindividual and group activities:■ making products or models■ solving problems or sharinginformation■ giving and receiving feedback■ communicating verbally ornonverbally■ analyzing case material■ negotiating or bargaining■ competing or collaborating■ writing■ transactions■ guided imagery■ choosing selfdisclosure■ confronting■ planning■ creating art objects■ role playing198 ❘❚ These activities can be carried out by individuals or in dyads (pairs), triads (trios),small groups, groupongroup arrangements, or large groups. Of course, the learningobjectives would dictate both the activity and the appropriate groupings.It is important to note that the objectives of structured experiences are necessarilygeneral and are stated in terms such as “to explore . . .,” “to examine . . .,” “tostudy . . .,” “to identify . . .,” etc. Inductive learning means learning through discovery,and the exact things to be learned cannot be specified beforehand. All that in wanted inthis stage of the learning cycle is to develop a common data base for the discussion thatfollows. This means that whatever happens in the activity, whether expected or not,becomes the basis for critical analysis; participants may learn serendipitously.Sometimes facilitators spend an inordinate amount of energy planning the activitybut leave the examination of it unplanned. As a consequence, learning may not befacilitated. The next four steps of the experiential learning cycle are even moreimportant than the experiencing phase. Accordingly, the facilitator needs to be carefulthat the activity does not generate excess data or create an atmosphere that makesdiscussion of the results difficult. There can be a lot of excitement and “fun” as well asconflict in human interaction, but these are not synonymous with learning; they providethe common references for group inquiry.PublishingThe second stage of the cycle is roughly analogous to inputting data, in dataprocessingterms. People have experienced an activity and now they presumably are ready to sharewhat they saw and/or how they felt during the event. The intent here is to make availableto the group the experience of each individual. This step involves finding out whathappened within and to individuals—at cognitive, affective, and behavioral levels—while the activity was progressing. A number of methods help to facilitate thepublishing, or declaring, of the reactions and observations of individual participants.■ Recording data during the experiencing stage (for later discussion): rating suchthings as productivity, satisfaction, confidence, communication, leadership, etc.;listing adjectives that capture feelings at various points.■ Whips: quick freeassociation goarounds on various topics concerning theactivity.■ Subgroup sharing: generating lists such as the doubleentry one “What Isaw/How I felt.”■ Posting: totalgroup input recorded on a newsprint flip chart.■ Ratings: developing ratings of relevant dimensions of the activity, tallying andaveraging these measures.■ Reporting: systematic “interviewing” of individuals about their experiencesduring the activity. ❚❘ 199■ Nominations: a variation of the “Guess Who?” technique—asking participants tonominate one another for roles they played during the experiencing stage.■ Interviewing pairs: asking each other “what” and “how” questions about theactivity.Publishing can be carried out through unstructured discussion, but this requires thatthe facilitator be absolutely clear about the differences in the steps of the learning cycleand distinguish sharply among interventions in the discussion. For example, during thepublishing phase it is important to stick to sharing feelings and other reactions andobservations and not to allow some participants to skip ahead to generalizing—inferringprinciples from what happened. Conversely, some group members’ energies may befocused on staying inside the activity, and they need to be nudged into separatingthemselves from it in order to learn. Structured techniques such as those listed abovemake the transition from stage one to stage two cleaner and easier. That, after all, is thejob of the facilitator: to create clarity and transition with ease.ProcessingThis stage can be thought of as the fulcrum or the pivotal step in experiential learning. Itis the systematic examination of commonly shared experience by those personsinvolved. During this stage, participants attempt to answer the question, “What actuallyhappened?” This is the “group dynamics” phase of the cycle, in which participantsessentially reconstruct the patterns and interactions of the activity from their individualreports. This “talking through” part of the cycle is critical, and it cannot be eitherignored or designed spontaneously if useful learning is to be developed. The facilitatorneeds to plan carefully how the processing will be carried out and focused toward thenext stage, generalizing. Unprocessed data can be experienced as “unfinished business”by participants and can distract them from further learning. Selected techniques that canbe used in the processing stage are listed below.■ Process observers: reports, panel discussions (observers often are unduly negativeand often need training in performing their functions).■ Thematic discussion: looking for recurring topics from the reports of individuals.■ Sentence completion: writing or saying individual responses to phrases such as“The leadership was . . .,” “Participation in this activity led to . . . .”■ Questionnaires: writing individual responses to items developed for the particularstructuredexperience activity.■ Data analysis: studying trends and correlations in ratings and/or adjectiveselicited during the publishing stage.■ Key terms: posting a list of dimensions to guide the discussion.200 ❘❚ ■ Interpersonal feedback: focusing attention on the effect of the role behaviors ofparticipants in the activity.This step should be thoroughly worked through before going on to the next.Participants should be led to look at what happened in terms of group dynamics andbehavioral trends but not in terms of “meaning.” What occurred was real, of course, butit was also somewhat artificially contrived by the structure of the activity. It is importantto keep in mind that a consciousness of the dynamics of the activity is critical forlearning about human relations outside the training setting. Participants often anticipatethe next step of the learning cycle and make premature generalizations. The facilitatorneeds to make certain that the processing has been adequate before moving on.Once the processing step has been accomplished, participants are ready (and shouldbe encouraged) to say goodbye to the content of the structured activity and to focus onthe learnings. This is the point at which learning readiness occurs. The question to beanswered next is “So what?”GeneralizingA key concept in experiential learning is that of pattern. Pattern implies that there isan order to the elements of a situation and that these elements occur with someregularity. Although variations on basic patterns occur because of individual andsubcultural differences, they can be understood beyond their differences when seen as ageneral class of event. The concept of pattern unites previously isolated phenomena.When the arrangement of elements is understood in one situation, this understanding canbe generalized and applied to other situations.Much of experiential learning is concerned with bringing one’s characteristic stylesof interaction into conscious awareness, evaluating them with respect to their utility fordifferent personal and professional roles, and modifying those particular aspects of one’sstyle that limit one’s effectiveness.Also, certain patterns of elements in social situations evoke common behaviors,irrespective of individual styles of interaction. For example, a task group with limitedresources tends to feel frustrated. A member’s choice of behavior to express thisfrustration is more a function of the roles and norms of the situation than of his or herpersonality. A structured training approach emphasizes the patterns in given situationsthat provide opportunities for certain behavioral alternatives while limiting opportunitiesfor other behavioral alternatives.However, if learning is to transfer to the “real world,” it is important for theparticipants to be able to extrapolate the experience from the training setting to theoutside world. An inferential leap has to be made at this point in the structuredexperience, from the reality inside the activity to the reality of everyday life. The keyquestion here is “So what?” Participants are led to focus their awareness on situations intheir personal or work lives that are similar to those in the activity that they experienced.Their task is to abstract from the processing phase some principles that could be applied ❚❘ 201“outside.” Thus, the generalizations are to be made about “what tends to happen,” not“what happened in this particular group.”This step is what makes structured experiences practical, and if it is omitted orglossed over, the learning is likely to be superficial. The following are some strategiesfor developing generalizations from the processing stage:■ Guided imagery: guiding participants to imagine realistic situations “back home”and determining what they have learned in the discussion that might beapplicable there.■ Truth with a little “t”: writing or making statements from the processingdiscussion about what is “true” about the “real world.”■ Individual analysis: writing or saying “What I learned,” “What I’m beginning tolearn,” “What I relearned.”■ Key terms: posting topics such as “leadership,” “communication,” “feelings,”etc., to focus generalizations.■ Sentence completion: writing completions to phrases such as “The effectivenessof shared leadership depends on . . . .”It is useful in this stage for the group interaction to result in a series of products—generalizations that are presented not only orally but also visually. This strategy helps tofacilitate vicarious learning among participants. The facilitator needs to remainnonevaluative about what is learned, drawing out the reactions of others togeneralizations that appear incomplete or controversial. Participants sometimesanticipate the final stage of the learning cycle also, and they need to be kept on the trackof clarifying what was learned before discussing what changes are needed.In the generalizing stage, it is possible for the facilitator to bring in theoretical andresearch findings to augment the learning. If concepts are to be taught, this is the time todo it. Introducing cognitive points here can provide a framework for the learning thathas been produced inductively and can help to check the reality orientation of theprocess. It is important that any input from the trainer be linked directly to the pointsthat have been generalized by the participants. Also, the practice may encouragedependence on the facilitator as the source of knowledge and may lessen commitment tothe final stage of the cycle if the outside information is not “owned” by theparticipants—a common phenomenon of deductive processes. Typically, less outsideinput is needed than one who is not familiar with the process may assume.ApplyingThe final stage of the experiential learning cycle is the purpose for which the wholestructured experience is designed. The central question here is “Now what?” Thefacilitator helps participants to apply generalizations to actual situations in which theyare involved. Ignoring such discussion jeopardizes the probability that the learning will202 ❘❚ be utilized. It is critical that attention be given to designing ways for individuals and/orgroups to use the learning generated during the structured experience to plan moreeffective behavior. Several practices can be incorporated into this stage.■ Consulting dyads or triads: taking turns helping one another with backhomeproblem situations and applying generalizations.■ Goal setting: developing applications according to such goal criteria asspecificity, performance, involvement, realism, and observability.■ Contracting: making explicit agreements with one another about applications.■ Subgrouping: in interest groups, discussing specific generalizations in terms ofwhat can be done more effectively.■ Practice session: role playing backhome situations to practice “new” behavior.Individuals are more likely to implement their planned applications if they sharethem with others. Participants can be asked to report what they intend to do with whatthey have learned, and this can encourage others to experiment with their own behavior.It is important to note that on the diagram of the experiential learning cycle there isan arrow from “applying” to “experiencing.” This is meant to indicate that the actualapplication of the learning is a new experience for the participant, to be examinedinductively in turn. What structured experiences “teach,” then, is a way of using one’severyday experiences as data for conscious learning about human interactions. Thissometimes is referred to as “relearning how to learn.”Such learning is an everyday part of everyone’s life. As long as one’s mind isfunctioning normally, one never stops learning. A major purpose of human resourcedevelopment is transferring learning from training programs to the job situation and—equally important—transferring the experience of relearning how to learn from thetraining situation to one’s professional and private lives.CONSIDERATIONS IN FACILITATING EXPERIENTIAL LEARNINGAlthough the stages of the model have been presented in discrete terms, it is clear thatthe interaction between them (and within them) is complex. No learner goes throughthese phases exactly step by step, and it probably would not be desirable to do so. Thedanger also exists that the participants might become fixed at one level becausechanging one’s behavior is frightening or emotionally demanding. Some participantsmay engage in what seems to be whimsical behavior because they fail to see how thetraining is related to issues in their own lives.If there is a major shortcoming in the area of change agentry, it lies in thecompletion of the latter phases of the cycle. The economics of time and money havediscouraged the development of programs that might result in more integrated and longterm behavioral change. All too often one is seduced by the exhilaration of discovery(the early stages of the model) and finds generalizing, processing, and publishing ❚❘ 203relegated to the last half hour—or even minutes—of the program. We all know thatthere are people who have left training programs full of good intentions but have soonreturned to their old ways of behaving. When longterm change in individuals and/ororganizations eludes us, we may begin to blame it on the participants rather than toexamine the training design. Trainers must question their own professionalism or ethicsif they attempt to present “exciting” training events that emphasize experiencing anddiscovering and are clearly lacking in generalization and application. Many clients willassert that they cannot afford a longer, more substantial design. The credibility of theHRD profession may be dependent on our answer to that assertion.What experiential learning does best is to instill a sense of ownership over what islearned. This is most easily achieved by making certain that each stage of the learningcycle is developed adequately. The implications of the model stress the necessity foradequate planning and sufficient time for each step.Another element that makes structured experiences so useful as learning devices istheir safety. Each individual’s responses to what happens during a structured experienceare valid learning for that individual. In didactic learning, in contrast, the teacher has thepower to push his or her interpretations, styles, and experiences, with the result that theparticipants’ own reactions and insights—what they truly know—may be lost. It isimperative that facilitators preserve the integrity of each participant’s individualexperience.Another aspect of the safety of a structured experience is the psychological safetyprovided by the boundary of each structured situation. When the artificial activity hasended, it is done with. The consequences of one’s way of being in a situation can endwith that situation. The processing, generalizing, and applying phases of the cycleemphasize going past the generating experience and thinking in terms of what tends tohappen and how it might be different next time. Thus, participants can engagewholeheartedly in assigned tasks and then separate themselves from the situation inorder to view it in retrospect. In this way, they are less encumbered by the emotionalimpact of events within the artificial situation. One can learn and be different in the nextsituation.CONCLUSIONLearning experiences that utilize the experiential learning model allow participants toconfront basic psychological and behavioral issues that they have to deal with in theirdaily lives. The model gives participants an opportunity to examine their feelings andbehaviors related to interactions with other individuals. Examining their feelings andother reactions to situations helps to expand the participants’ awareness andunderstanding of the function their emotions play in their behavior. Not only does thisadd to the interest and involvement of the participants, it also contributes significantly tothe transfer of learning. No other type of learning generates this personal involvementand depth of understanding. The ultimate result is that participants accept responsibility204 ❘❚ for their own learning and behavior, rather than assigning that responsibility to someoneelse.SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Using structured experiences in human resource development (UATTSeries, Vol. 1). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 205The Experiential Learning Cycle206 ❘❚ ❚❘ FACILITATOR EFFECTIVENESSThere are several dimensions that are important in and to those who are trainers, orfacilitators of human learning and change. Some of these are personal and some arerelated to professional knowledge and experience.PERSONAL REQUIREMENTSThe human element is the most critical and most real component of facilitatoreffectiveness. One of the most significant personal dimensions of a facilitator is theability to feel empathy for another person. Of course, we never can fully experiencesomeone else’s situation, but it is crucial that a facilitator try to see things from anotherperson’s perspective. Another important personal dimension is acceptance—allowinganother person to be different, to have a different set of values and goals, to behavedifferently.Congruence and flexibility determine two additional aspects of the person.Congruent people are aware of what they are doing and feeling and are able tocommunicate these to others in a straightforward way. A healthy and psychologicallymature person is flexible, not dogmatic, opinionated, rigid, or authoritarian. A healthyfacilitator should be able to deal with another person at that person’s pace.If people have these personal attributes, they are therapeutic. Just being aroundthem makes others feel good; they help by being wellintegrated persons themselves.The most meaningful growth that facilitators can undertake is improving their ownpersonal development, furthering their own understanding of their values, attitudes,impulses, and desires. Two of the most important interpersonal conflicts that HRDprofessionals must resolve for themselves are their individual capacities for intimacyand their relations to authority.Specific attention should be paid to the facilitator’s role as a person who interactswith others. The facilitator should strive to be a person who generates enrichment ratherthan a person who extracts nourishment from others. Facilitators should focus on givingtrainees opportunities to grow as individuals. Many training programs are combinationsof counseling, personal growth, consciousness raising, value clarification, sensoryawareness, and other experiences in addition to content training; the intent is to helpparticipants to experience themselves and others in a growthful way. ❚❘ 207PROFESSIONAL REQUIREMENTSAppropriate training for group facilitators is an important issue in education and in theapplied behavioral sciences. The trainer needs more than a package of structuredexperiences to facilitate learning effectively. Solid exposure to and integration of thefollowing components are needed.Conceptual KnowledgeIt is important that the group facilitator have a solid understanding of people, groups,and facilitating styles. This knowledge may be obtained through formal means (auniversity or other professional training program) and/or through less formal ways suchas reading or attending seminars.Theories. Theory is a resource. It is one of the components a facilitator uses todevelop and improve as a practitioner. Theories abound in applied behavioral science;there are theories of personality, group dynamics, organizational behavior, communitybehavior, and systems.Techniques. One also can improve the effects of training and consulting throughtechniques and design components such as structured experiences, instruments,lecturettes, confrontations, and verbal and nonverbal interventions.Understanding People. The facilitator has direct and often intense involvementwith people. Knowing about people in a theoretical sense contributes to knowing themin a personal and professional sense. This knowledge can be obtained through the studyof normal and abnormal human behavior, theories of personality, and theories andtechniques of counseling, as well as through other sources.Understanding Groups. A thorough knowledge of group interaction and dynamicsis required. A “cognitive map” is crucial to the adequate understanding of how groupsdevelop and how members relate to one another. Several models are available forunderstanding the stages of group development in both the personal and taskdimensions.SkillsExperiential Learning. Experiential learning as a group member in various types ofgroups is a necessary beginning. Being in a group as a fully participating member maybe the best way to learn about groups. Supervised cofacilitating experience is animportant introduction to the role of group facilitator. It is at this point that theintegration of theory, practice, and experience is approached. Supervised facilitatingwithout a cofacilitator is the next step, and ongoing professional development is neededthroughout one’s practice. Such development may be acquired through laboratories,workshops, seminars, and professional conventions.208 ❘❚ Communication Skills. Certain basic communication skills are necessary in orderto promote individual, group, and organizational growth. A facilitator needs to developthe ability to listen, to express (both verbally and nonverbally), to observe, to respond topeople, to intervene artfully in the group process, and to design effective learningenvironments that make efficient use of resources.Presentation Skills. The perceived effectiveness of a presentation is dependent onseveral variables, including the presenter’s appearance, use of language, bodilymovements, preparation, content, and delivery. Attention to the following items can helpto make any presentation more effective.■ Appearance. It is important that the facilitator appear credible and professional tothe participants. One of the most obvious ways in which this perception can beaffected is in the facilitator’s choice of clothing and accessories. Needless to say,it would not be appropriate to show up for a training program at, for example,IBM, wearing a dashiki and sandals. In some other situation, it might not beappropriate to wear a business dress or suit. The trainer should determine whatthe culture of the sponsoring organization and participant group is and, in mostcases, dress accordingly.■ Language. It is a good idea to use the participants’ language as much as possible,with the exception of the crude vernacular or excessive jargon. Before speaking,take two or three deep breaths. Slow down and speak more deliberately than youwould in a normal conversation. This makes it easier to remember what you wantto say next, and it also is easier for the participants to understand.■ Body language. Nonverbal body language also is part of the trainer’spresentation. Good posture helps to present a professional image, but it need notbe stiff or formal. In fact, it often is a good idea to appear to be relaxed. It isimportant to look at all the group members as one speaks and to maintain eyecontact briefly.■ Preparation. Preparing one’s presentation ahead of time, practicing (in front of amirror or on videotape), and observing seasoned professionals who are presentingcan help to develop effective physical and verbal presentation skills.It also is important to take the participants into consideration during anypresentation. There are many books on the subject of metaverbal and nonverbalcommunication that can help a trainer to gain skill in reading the body language of theparticipants. One should be able to recognize nonverbal messages of enthusiasm,impatience, boredom, fatigue, conflict, mistrust, and so on. Other theories and modelscan help to improve a trainer’s presentation and facilitation skills as well. For example,an understanding of neurolinguistic programing can help to make one’s presentationsmore interesting and memorable for the visuals, auditories, and kinesthetics in theaudience. An understanding of social styles can help one to understand and relate moreeffectively to the analyticals, drivers, expressives, and amiables in the group. ❚❘ 209FUNCTIONAL EFFECTIVENESSThe group facilitator needs to demonstrate competency. This is a combination of thefacilitator’s knowledge, personal style, and training experience. Facilitative functionscan be structured or unstructured, verbal or nonverbal, exotic or traditional, but they allare intended and applied to effect desired outcomes. Lieberman, Yalom, and Miles(1973) have identified four basic, facilitative functions in encounter groups: emotionalstimulation, caring, meaning attribution, and executive function.■ Emotional stimulation represents evocative, expressive facilitator behavior thatis personal and highly charged emotionally. The facilitator performing thisfunction frequently is in the center of the group. Personal confrontation is valued;high risk is pervasive.■ Caring is evidenced by the development of specific, warm personal relationshipswith group members. These relationships are characterized by understanding andgenuineness. Caring is a completely separate issue from technical proficiency.■ Meaning attribution is achieved by the facilitator’s providing cognitiveexplanations of behavior and definitions of frameworks for change. As afunctional skill, it means giving meaning to experience.■ Executive functions are managerial approaches such as stopping the action andasking group members to process the experience or suggesting roles andprocedures for group members to follow.Included within these four basic functions are specific behaviors. Some of thesebehaviors are listed in the table on the next page. They comprise a typology of facilitatorfunctions and behaviors.REFERENCELieberman, M., Yalom, I., & Miles, M. (1973). Encounter groups: First facts. New York: Basic Books.SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Presentation and evaluation skills in human resource development (UATTSeries, Vol. 7). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.FUNCTIONSAcceptingUnderstandingSupportingModeling warmthDeveloping intimate relationshipsCaring EmotionalStimulationMeaningAttributionExecutiveFunctionChallengingConfrontingReleasing strong emotionIntrusive modelingCatalyzing interactionReflectingInterpretingExplainingLabelingLinkingGatekeepingSetting standardsGiving directionsBlockingDirecting trafficFacilitator Functions andSome Inclusive BehaviorsBEHAVIORS ❚❘ 211❚❘ FUNCTIONS OF GROUP LEADERSMany observers have noted differences in the behavior of group leaders. In a study ofencounter groups, Lieberman, Yalom, and Miles (1973) documented stylistic as well asbehavioral differences among leaders. In general, the leader’s behaviors aided groups todevelop the conditions necessary for progress and growth. The results of the studyallowed the researchers to categorize much of what the group leaders did within fourfactorially derived categories. The four categories are: emotional stimulation, caring,meaningattribution, and executive functioning.Emotional stimulation refers to a leader’s expressing emotion; taking interpersonalrisk; and communicating anger, affection, and love by demonstration. Stylistically,leaders who favor emotional stimulation invest great amounts of time modeling desiredbehavior. Thus, the leader functions as a demonstrator of behavior, becomes the centerof the group’s universe, and moves the group forward by use of personal power andpersonality.Typical leader behaviors in this category include revealing personal feelings,values, and beliefs; challenging and confronting group members; participating in thegroup as a member; and generally calling attention to oneself.Caring describes a leader’s unconditional acceptance of others and expressions ofwarmth, authenticity, and genuine concern for the wellbeing of group members.Stylistically, leaders who favor caring invest great amounts of time establishingrelationships. Thus, the leader becomes friend and confidant. The leadergroup memberrelationship becomes much deeper than simply liking one another. For Lieberman,Yalom, and Miles, “liking” is more appropriately within the domain of emotionalstimulation.Typical leader behaviors in this category include protection from emotional harm;offers of friendship, love, and affection; and recurring invitations for members to seekfeedback, support, praise, and encouragement.■ MeaningAttribution is the process in which a leader interprets and attachesmeaning to group feelings and behavior. It is a cognitive function whereby groupfeelings and behavior are named, interpreted, and translated into words and ideasby the leader. Stylistically, leaders who favor meaningattribution can becomevery charismatic and tend to invest a great deal of time in raising issues andfacilitating group selfreflection. Leaders who do not perform meaningattribution functions tend to be perceived as equals and peers by group members.Typical leader behaviors in this category include explaining, clarifying,interpreting, and providing concepts to aid in understanding feelings andbehavior, as well as providing concepts about how to change.212 ❘❚ ■ Executive functioning refers to what Lieberman, Yalom, and Miles call themovie director approach. The leader stops the action and calls attention to aparticular emotion or behavior. Stylistically, leaders who favor executivefunctioning accentuate the expression of emotion; interpersonal risk; andcommunication of anger, affection, and love through suggestion rather than bydemonstration (as in emotional stimulation). Unlike an interpreter who providesmeaning for the group, the executive leader asks the group to provide its ownanswers and meaning. Executivefunctioning leaders often assume the role ofresource leader and utilize structured experiences to suggest and establishpreferred group behavior.Typical leader behaviors in this category include setting limits; suggesting orsetting rules, norms, goals, and direction for group movement as well as timemanagement; and stopping, inviting, eliciting, questioning, and suggesting proceduresfor making decisions.Based on their research, Lieberman, Yalom, and Miles concluded that the mosteffective leaders were moderate in the use of emotional stimulation and executivefunctioning, were highly caring, and were moderate to high in their use of meaningattribution. Conversely, the least effective leaders used either too much or too littleemotional stimulation and executive functioning, were low in caring, and used little orno meaningattribution.LEADER TYPESThe four dimensions are fundamental in the sense that all leaders display the behaviorsdescribed. However, not all behaviors are displayed with the same intensity or in thesame mix. The research of Lieberman, Yalom, and Miles suggests that differences inleader behavior are clearly associated with differences in leader types, which theyidentified as: energizers, providers, social engineers, impersonals, laissezfaires, andmanagers (see table).For instance, the leaders labeled as energizers were distinguished by “intenseemotional stimulation” and caring. Similarly, providers were distinguished by their highlevels of caring and meaningattribution, social engineers by their group orientation andhigh meaningattribution, impersonals by their interpersonal distance, low caring, andlow executive functioning, laissezfaires by their handsoff approach, and managers bytheir extreme executive functioning.The research of Lieberman, Yalom, and Miles suggests that the behavior of leadersin encounter groups makes a significant difference on whether or not group membersexperience a beneficial or detrimental encounter. Of the six types of leader behavior,three—energizer, provider, and social engineer—were found to be beneficial andthree—impersonal, laissezfaire, and manager—were found to be detrimental. ❚❘ 213REFERENCELieberman, M.A., Yalom, I.D., & Miles, M.B. (1973). Encounter groups: First facts. New York: Basic Books.Relationship Between Leader Behaviors and Leader TypesEnergizerProviderSocial EngineerImpersonalLaissezFaireManagerEmotionalStimulation CaringMeaning AttributionExecutiveFunction Table from Encounter Groups: First Facts by Morton A. Lieberman, Irvin D. Yalom and Matthew B. Miles. Copyright © 1973 byMorton A. Lieberman, Irvin D. Yalom and Matthew B. Miles. Reprinted by permission of Basic Books, Inc., a division of HarperCollinsPublishers. ❚❘ 215❚❘ INSTRUCTIONALSYSTEMS DEVELOPMENTModels of instructional development are intended as guides for the designers,developers, and implementers of learning systems (systems of training, education, andinstruction). Instructionaldevelopment models differ in their labels and processes, butall models include three basic components: defining objectives (analysis), planning toachieve the objectives (synthesis), and testing the plan (evaluation). Although all modelspossess similar central characteristics, definitional differences warrant individualconsideration.EDUCATION, TRAINING, AND INSTRUCTIONMany regard the differentiation between education and training as an important aspectof learning. Romiszowski (1981) suggests that the fundamental difference betweeneducation and training is the issue of preplanned learning goals. Romiszowski notes that:Those of us who know where they are going, and can define the path that leads there, are in thebusiness of training, whereas those who neither know their destination nor the means of gettingthere are in the business of education. (1981, p. 3)Romiszowski believes that most trainers would agree with the above statementwhile most educators probably would disagree. Educators might argue that, althoughtheir end goals may not always be specifically defined, their destinations are known, andthey do understand how to attain their goals. Conversely, trainers might argue that,although their destinations are clearly defined, they sometimes deviate from their plansin order to facilitate individual learning. For Romiszowski, the differences between thetwo can be depicted as opposing points on an educationtraining continuum (see figure).EducationTraining ContinuumAs shown in the figure, the education side of the continuum represents an approachin which learning goals and the methods for achieving learning goals are establishedsolely by learners. Educators exist as resources and provide limited—if any—input intodetermining the direction of learning. The training side of the continuum represents theopposite extreme, in which learning goals and the methods for achieving them areestablished by people other than the learners. For example, organizational training goals216 ❘❚ often are determined by specific needs that have been identified through structuredneeds analyses. The role of trainers is to ensure that predetermined goals are reached.Therefore, organizational trainers tend to allow only limited (if any) deviation frompredetermined goals and methods.Obviously, these definitions will not always apply to the terms “educator” and“trainer” as they are popularly used. In this framework, “education” is seen as an openopportunity for learning, not necessarily the school/academic environment. Similarly,“training” implies a preplanned approach, not necessarily within the HRD framework.Somewhere between learnerderived education and otherderived training lies thepoint at which education ends and training begins. Romiszowski believes that theprecise determination of this point is unimportant because training often containselements of education and vice versa. Romiszowski also believes that who chooses thelearning goals is relatively unimportant. The important issue is that some sort of goaldetermination and goalattainment strategies have taken place. Accordingly, the terminstruction is more appropriate than either education or training.Instruction can be defined as “goaldirected teaching processes that are more or lesspreplanned.” This definition addresses both goal formulation and preplanning.Preplanning is a crucial element as it provides the guidelines for future direction andintroduces a means for educators, trainers, and learners to measure the learning that hasoccurred. For Romiszowski, goals (however determined), preplanning, and testingcombine to form an instructional system, which brings about learning.THE INSTRUCTIONALSYSTEMS APPROACHSystems are defined in terms of inputs from the external environment (information,materials, technology, and people), internalconversion processes (human andtechnological), and outcomes provided to users (outputs). Systems may or may not usefeedback mechanisms to regulate themselves. Systems are purposeful and goal directed;they exist because of the interdependence between inputs, processes, outputs, and theenvironment. Instructional systems, therefore, are systems that receive input from theenvironment and, through a variety of internal processes, convert inputs into valued useroutputs. The outputs of instructional systems are solutions to problems.An instructionalsystems approach applies systems thinking and terminology to thedefinition and resolution of real problems. Real problems are defined by Romiszowskias problems that have created enough dissatisfaction to warrant the cost of getting from“the way things are” to “the way things should be.” Such systems thinking begins with athreestep process:1. Step One: At the point at which the problem is located, the system is defined interms of inputs, outputs, and boundaries. Romiszowski suggests that inputs andoutputs be quantified because quantification increases validity, helps define thesystem’s purpose, and helps determine system efficiency. ❚❘ 2172. Step Two: In inputoutput terms, problems are identified as discrepanciesbetween “the way things currently are” and “the way things should be.” Ifdiscrepancies between what exists and what is desired cannot be described ininputoutput terms, it is unlikely that the correct system has been identified.3. Step Three: The value of changing from what exists to what is desired isquantified. For example, if current outputs are assigned a value of ten, and ifdesired outputs are valued at fifteen, the value of changing from “what is” to“what should be” is five.Effective instructional designs begin with precise problem statements. Learningproblems can be defined as the differences between what learners should know and beable to do and what they currently know and are able to do. Romiszowski cautions thatsolutions are easily confused with problems and that care must be taken not to identifysolutions before the problem has been defined accurately. Completion of the above threesteps will ensure that the problems have been defined as precisely as possible and itprovides a foundation for continuing the problemsolving process. Problemsolvingprocesses follow this standard format:■ Define problems using systems terminology;■ Analyze problems in order to generate potential solutions;■ Select and synthesize the ideal solution;■ Control implementation; and■ Test, evaluate, and revise as needed.REFERENCERomiszowski, A.J. (1981). Designing instructional systems. New York: Nichols.218 ❘❚ ❚❘ LEARNING OBJECTIVESRobert Mager (1984, p. v) reminds us, “. . . if you’re not sure where you’re going,you’re liable to end up someplace else.”The need to specify and communicate learning objectives has attained the status ofconventional wisdom in the field of education. Teachers, professors, and trainers areroutinely required to prepare instructional objectives. Clearly stated objectives allowlearners to:■ know the desired behavioral outcomes of instruction,■ know what the instructor intends to teach, and■ know whether they have achieved what the instruction was designed to achieve.Writing the learning objectives permits the instructor to:■ organize the instruction,■ plan the instruction,■ select relevant concepts,■ select teaching methods, and■ know whether the learners have mastered the intended material.THREE MAJOR ELEMENTS OF AN INSTRUCTIONAL OBJECTIVEThree major elements of an instructional objective have been identified by Mager(1984). They are:■ Performance: a statement of the participant’s desired performance ability at theend of training. An objective for this article might be: “. . . will be able to write aset of instructional objectives to provide training on that subject.”■ Conditions: a description of the conditions under which the trainee will be able toperform the skill imparted by training. For example, readers of this article will beexpected to formulate training objectives only on “. . . particular subject matter,”about which they are knowledgeable.■ Criteria: the criteria for determining whether the learner has adequatelydemonstrated the ability covered by the training. The criterion for this article is“. . . in accordance with the suggestions for writing effective objectives describedby this article.” ❚❘ 219PerformanceThe performance statement tells us what the participant will be able to do or perform atthe conclusion of instruction. Often instructors want their students to know orunderstand something at the conclusion of training. For example, a geometry teachermight want his or her students to know how to find the area of a circle. Unfortunately,words such as “know” or “understand” are not very useful objectives, because theinstructor cannot look inside heads to determine what students know about computingthe area of a circle. In general, verbs that express “knowing” or “being” (to appreciate,to feel, to comprehend, to enjoy, to believe, to internalize, etc.) are too vague to describeperformance in concrete terms. The need to express objectives as performances can befulfilled by something such as the following:Students will be able to write computations necessary to calculate the area of a circle.orStudents will be able to write answers to problems requiring the computation of the area of acircle.Admittedly, the phrasing of the two preceding examples seems somewhat awkward.The instructor might state the objective more directly and concisely as:Students will be able to compute the area of a circle.However, Mager points out that words such as “compute,” “identify,” “solve,”“find,” or “calculate” describe covert rather than overt behaviors. That is, they refer toinvisible behaviors, the whirring and turning of the gears in someone’s head. It isdifficult to identify just when someone has computed the area of a circle or identified themating call of a Snowy Egret. In a technical sense, one can know only whether thecomputation or identification has taken place if that person writes down or sayssomething. When the exhortation for the learner to do something covert seems unclear,Mager (1984) suggests clarifying the issue by inserting a parenthetical phrase. Forexample:Students will be able to compute (write the solution for) the area of a circle.There is no one way to write objectives, but experts on the subject generally agreethat they should be written as observable and measurable performances, not states ofbeing or states of knowledge.ConditionsIt is one thing to change the jib sail on a sailing yacht that is tied to the dock; quiteanother thing to perform the same task during a storm at sea. If the purpose of aseamanship course is to train oceangoing sailors, the objectives regarding jib sailsshould be stated differently than they would be for a course to familiarize novices withthe operation of sailboats. In general, the purposes of the training determine how theconditions of the objectives will be stated.220 ❘❚ For example, an objective for a course to train word processors at the customerservice department of a public utility might be:Given the name, address, and appropriate complaintresponse form, participants will be able toenter text, save files, print out documents, and submit documents for final approval.The objective for a course to train word processors at the classifiedadvertisingdepartment of a daily newspaper might be:Given oral information from customers requesting advertising by telephone, participants will beable to enter text, save files, print out documents, and submit documents for final approval.The objective for a course to train court stenographers on a wordprocessingpackage might be:Given either a taperecorded trial transcript or a shorthand version of testimony, participants willbe able to enter text, save files, print out documents, and submit documents for final approval.All three word processors are being trained for the same performance: to enter text,save files, print out documents, and submit documents for final approval. Nevertheless,the conditions imposed by the training objectives vary in accordance with the purpose ofthe training.Thus, it is easy to see why performance conditions ought to dictate content oftraining, methods of training, and standards for successful completion of training.Unless those conditions are explicit in the objectives, the appropriate adjustments oftraining content, methods, and standards are unlikely to occur.CriteriaMager says that when you have identified what you want learners to be able to do, youcan improve the descriptive quality of an objective by stating how well you want them todo it. Unfortunately, learners often are not informed as to what the test for a course willcover. If objectives are properly written, they communicate to the students what learningis expected as an outcome of the course. This encourages them to learn the desiredmaterial and avoids the educationally valueless and wasteful activity of trying to “psychout” the instructor regarding the exam. For the instructor, the objectives should guide theselection of materials used to teach and materials used to test. Thus, the performancecriteria tell student and instructor alike what a successful performance outcome of theinstruction will be.Performance criteria can include the time limits in which the behavior will occur(e.g., given an appropriate computer and software, participants will be able to write aprogram that creates simple graphics in two hours). Accuracy also can be a criterion forperformance (e.g., given appropriate equipment, laboratorytechnician trainees will beable to correctly classify as healthy or pathological 98 percent of the cell samples).Quality often is the criterion for performance (e.g., using only hand tools, such as amiter box and a bucksaw—but no hammers and nails—finishcarpentry trainees willconstruct a picture frame with joints that have no gaps and that are as near to perfectly ❚❘ 221square as can be measured by a trisquare). As can be seen, criteria provide the basisfor evaluating the achievement of learning objectives.REFERENCEMager, R.F. (1984). Preparing instructional objectives (2nd, rev. ed.). Belmont, CA: Pitman Learning/DS Lake.222 ❘❚ ❚❘ LEARNING STYLESMost trainers, educators, and human resource development (HRD) professionals agreethat people learn in different ways. Research has demonstrated that there are measurabledifferences in the ways in which people assimilate and process information—in otherwords, learn—as well as differences in the types of environments that are conducive tolearning. Yet much training and education is conducted as if every learner will learn inthe same way and at the same rate.Riechmann and Grasha (1974) identified six learning styles: competitive, those wholearn in order to outperform classmates; collaborative, who believe they can learn bestthrough sharing; avoidant, who are not interested in learning content in traditional ways;participant, who want to learn and enjoy the sessions; dependent, who lack curiosity andwant to be told what to do; and independent, who enjoy thinking for themselves.Cross (1976) details research that discriminates fielddependent students—thosewho perceive the world as a whole and emphasize relationships—from fieldindependent students—those who tend to separate elements and approach the world inan analytical mode. She emphasizes that people will be more productive if they arestudying by means of a method that is compatible with their styles.Learning Styles and the Experiential Learning CycleKolb (1976) presented descriptions of learningstyle preferences. In brief, he says thatsome adults have a receptive, experiencebased approach to learning; these individualsrely heavily on feelingbased judgments and learn best from specific examples,involvement, and discussion. Kolb calls these learners concrete experiencers. In theexperiential learning cycle, such people are very receptive to and excited byexperiencing the activity and publishing and sharing their reactions to it. These peoplemay become glassyeyed during the fourth step, in which the group generalizes aboutthe activity.Some adults have a tentative, impartial, and reflective approach to learning. Suchindividuals rely heavily on careful observation and learn best from situations that allowimpartial observation. Kolb calls these the reflective observers. These individuals obtaininsight and learning most easily from steps three and four of the experiential learningcycle, processing and generalizing.Continuing around the adult learning cycle, other people have an analytical andconceptual approach to learning, relying heavily on logical thinking and rationalevaluation. These individuals learn best from impersonal situations, from theopportunity to integrate new learning with what already is known, and from theory. Thisgroup is termed the abstract conceptualizers; they tend to be most comfortable in thegeneralizing stage of the experiential cycle. ❚❘ 223Finally, there are the adult learners who are called active experimenters. Theirapproach to learning is pragmatic (“Yes, but will it work?”). They rely heavily onexperimentation and learn best from projects, backhome applications, and “trying itout.” They must have the answer to the question “Now that I know all this, what am Igoing to do with it?” The final step in the experiential learning cycle, applying, isespecially necessary for the active experimenters.Despite these preferences, the experiential learning cycle cannot be abridged simplybecause an individual prefers one particular approach to learning; all learners must movethrough the entire cycle for the learning to “jell” and for the learner to “own” what waslearned.THE LEARNINGSTYLE INVENTORYJacobs and Fuhrmann (1984) identify three basic types of learners: dependent,collaborative, and independent.■ Dependent learners tend to display a passive “teachme” attitude towardlearning. They assume that their trainers or instructors will assume fullresponsibility for any learning that takes place. Dependent learners expect thattrainers will determine the learning objectives, develop course content andlearning materials, and give grades. Dependent learners often are eager to learnbut are likely to assume that they cannot do so without help. These learners aremost productive in structured learning environments and often require a greatdeal of support and encouragement to move into more collaborative andindependent learning situations.■ Collaborative learners expect to share the responsibility for learning and forestablishing learning objectives and course content with their trainers.Collaborative learners value participation, interaction, teamwork, and theknowledge and expertise of their peers. They may be uncomfortable in highlystructured learningenvironments and at times may have difficulty recognizingtrainers’ expertise in designing independent learning projects and in facilitatingthe learning process.■ Independent learners expect to set and to achieve their own learning goals. Theyperceive trainers as holders of the knowledge and expertise that will help them toachieve their personal goals. Independent learners are comfortable working aloneand require only minimal contact with others. The independent style of learningis highly active and can be expressed in the phrase, “Help me to learn to do itmyself.”224 ❘❚ ’ ❚❘ 225The three styles are of equal merit, but certain styles may be more appropriate forcertain people in particular learning situations. For example, more immature studentsrequire more structure and seem more dependent while they are learning. For use in theirtheory, Jacobs and Fuhrmann (1984) borrow Hersey and Blanchard’s (1982) definitionof maturity: the willingness and ability to assume responsibility for directing one’s ownbehavior. Willingness refers to one’s level of motivation, and ability refers to one’sknowledge, skills, and talents in a particular field. Motivated (willing) trainees believethat the material about which they are learning is important. They are determined tolearn and are confident in their ability to do so. Consequently, as trainees gain maturity,their competence in and confidence about independent learning increases. The tablebelow presents an overview of appropriate trainer behaviors for each learning style.Learner Style Learner Needs Trainer Role Trainer BehaviorDEPENDENT (May occurin introductory courses,new work situations,languages, and somesciences when thelearner has little or noinformation on enteringthe course.)StructureDirectionExternal reinforcementEncouragementEsteem from authorityDirectorExpertAuthorityLecturingDemonstratingAssigningCheckingEncouragingTestingReinforcingTransmitting contentGradingDesigning materialsCOLLABORATIVE (Mayoccur when the learnerhas some knowledge,information, or ideas andwould like to share themor try them out.)InteractionPracticeProbe of self and othersObservationParticipationPeer challengePeer esteemExperimentationCollaboratorColearnerEnvironment setterInteractingQuestioningProviding resourcesModelingProviding feedbackCoordinatingEvaluatingManagingObserving processGradingINDEPENDENT (Mayoccur when the learnerhas much knowledge orskill on entering thecourse and wants tocontinue to search on hisor her own or has hadsuccessful experiences inworking through newsituations alone. Thelearner may feel that theinstructor cannot offer asmuch as he or she wouldlike.)Internal awarenessExperimentationTimeNonjudgmental supportDelegatorFacilitatorAllowingProviding requested feedbackProviding resourcesConsultingListeningNegotiatingEvaluatingDelegatingLearnerTrainer Styles226 ❘❚ For Jacobs and Fuhrmann, the primary role of the educator or trainer is to providelearners with an opportunity to capitalize on their talents and interests. Therefore,trainers must be aware of people’s learning styles so that they can create an enablinglearning environment.THE LEARNINGMODEL INSTRUMENTMurrell (1987) presents a model that describes four types of learners—thinkingplanners, feeling planners, task implementers, and participative implementers. The fourlearning styles are based on two learning continuua:■ CognitiveAffective; and■ ConcreteAbstract.Murrell asserts that learning results not only from cognition (thinking) but also fromexperience and feeling (affect). Murrell believes that individual differences on theaffectivecognitive continuum are the fundamental predictors of how people learn. Themodel’s second dimension (the vertical axis) utilizes an abstractconcrete continuum.Murrell’s model is depicted in the figure that follows.Murrell’s Learning CycleCOGNITIVE LEARNERSCognitive learners tend to learn through mental activity. They can grasp the subjectmatter intellectually and prefer to learn through controlled thought and logic. Murrellnotes research regarding leftand rightbrain functioning that indicates that people whoseleft brains are dominant tend to exhibit cognitive preferences. Rationality appeals tocognitive learners, as do logic and other intellectual skills. Murrell suggests that a highcognitivelearning preference often accompanies a high task orientation. ❚❘ 227AFFECTIVE LEARNERSAffective learners are more comfortable with situations in which they can learn throughfeelings and emotions rather than with logic. Affective learners prefer personalinteraction during the learning process and learn about people by experiencing thememotionally. Murrell notes that in rightbrain research, affective learners are said to bemore intuitive, more spontaneous, and less linear.CONCRETE LEARNERSPeople with high concretelearning preferences enjoy jumping in and getting their handsdirty. Handson experiences are important to concrete learners; they strive to keep busy,to become directly involved, and to physically approach or touch whatever they areworking with. If they work with machines, they will get greasy; if they work withpeople, they will become involved.ABSTRACT LEARNERSAt the other end of the concreteabstract continuum are those who do not have anyspecial desire to touch, but who want to keep active by thinking about the situation andby relating it to similar situations. Their preferred learning style is internal—inside theirown heads.People are unlikely to be on the extreme ends of either the cognitiveaffective orconcreteabstract axes, and no one type of learning is best. The model merely offers amethod for looking at different learning styles. The domains (areas between the verticaland horizontal continuua) are as follows:1. The Thinking Planner represents a combination of cognitive and abstractpreferences. This is the place for the planner whose job is task oriented andwhose environment contains primarily things, numbers, or printouts. Thethinking planner probably does well in school, is likely to have a talent forplanning, and is likely to be successful in a department that deals with largequantities of untouchable things, such as financial management. The bias informal education often is toward this learning style, in which concepts are treatedabstractly and socioemotional elements often are denied.2. The Feeling Planner represents a combination of affective and abstractpreferences. Feeling planners enjoy working with people but have limitedopportunities to get close to them. Socialanalysis skills are represented in thisarea. People in this area should be able to understand the social and emotionalfactors that affect a large organization. Learners with this style sometimesexperience difficulties when placed in learning situations that prevent them fromhaving direct contact with others and when expected to determine withoutconcrete experience the nature of and solutions to problems.228 ❘❚ 3. The Task Implementer represents a combination of cognitive and concretepreferences. Task implementers often are decision makers who primarily want tounderstand the task and who can focus on details and specifics in a thoughtfulmanner. If the demand for interpersonal skills is low and if the emotional climateis not a problem, this person is likely to do well.4. The Participative Implementer represents a combination of affective andconcrete preferences. Participative implementers tend to possess “people skills”and are able to work closely with others. These learners like to become involvedand have the ability for and interest in working with the emotional needs anddemands of others. Practical management programs often emphasize this style,which can complement the more traditional thinkingplanning learning style.Murrell also believes that, despite personal preferences, trainers should be capableof working with learners who function in each or the four areas because trainers must beable to work with a variety of people who learn in many different ways.REFERENCESCross, K.P. (1976). Accent on learning. San Francisco: JosseyBass.Hersey, P., & Blanchard, K.H. (1982). Management of organizational behavior: Utilizing human resources (4thed.). Englewood Cliffs, NJ: PrenticeHall.Jacobs, R.T., & Fuhrmann, B.S. (1984). The concept of learning style. In J.W. Pfeiffer & L.D. Goodstein (Eds.),The 1984 annual: Developing human resources. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Kolb, D.A. (1976). Learning style inventory: Technical manual. Boston: McBer.Murrell, K.L. (1987). The learning model instrument: An instrument based on the learning model for managers. InJ.W. Pfeiffer (Ed.), The 1987 annual: Developing human resources. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Riechmann, S., & Grasha, T. (1974). A rational approach to developing and assessing the construct validity of astudent learning style scale instrument. The Journal of Psychology, 87, 213223.SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Presentation and evaluation skills in human resource development (UATTSeries, Vol. 7). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 229❚❘ LEVELS OF TRAINING EVALUATIONMost models of training, instructional design, and instruction incorporate some elementof evaluation (Dick & Carey, 1985; Romiszowski, 1981). In a training context,evaluation can be defined as the means to determine or to set the value of training. Inother words, evaluation is a measure of outcome and a means of providing feedbackabout training’s impact. Unfortunately, evaluations often are not highly valid, which ledPutman (1989) to suggest the following:Evaluation is to human resource development what losing weight is to the American middle class.Nobody denies its importance, almost everybody has plans to do it, and the mere act of tryingbrings automatic approval . . . . Evaluation is seldom done, hard to do, and the results are rarelyuseful. (p. 143)Randall (1960) proposed that there are three distinct viewpoints regarding trainingevaluation.■ Negativists believe that evaluation of training is unnecessary or impossiblebecause training programs cannot be measured objectively.■ Positivists believe that only scientific evaluation of training is worthwhile.Positivists believe that other types of evaluations are wastes of time.■ Frustrates believe that training must be evaluated and that the focus should be onthe measurement of outcomes and on the design of meaningful evaluations.Frustrates tend to concentrate on performing the highest quality evaluationpossible rather than on deciding whether an evaluation is necessary.LEVELS OF EVALUATIONTraining effectiveness is measured in terms of desired outcomes—whetherorganizational needs are fulfilled. Desired outcomes are determined by training goalsand objectives, and training goals and objectives are determined through needsassessments. Therefore, training goals differ according to the needs of the organizationthat is sponsoring the training. Consequently, different types of information andmeasurement technologies are used for different types of evaluation. Mayo and DuBois(1987) describe four levels at which training outcomes can be evaluated.1. Level I measures the trainees’ reactions and acceptance of the material.2. Level II measures the trainees’ learning of knowledge and skills.3. Level III measures changes in behavior and onthejob improvement.4. Level IV measures organizational results and improved operational performance.230 ❘❚ The four levels correspond with four basic evaluation criteria: (a) did the traineesenjoy the training?; (b) did the trainees learn anything?; (c) did the training help onthejob performance?; and (d) did the training help organizational performance?The table at the end of this article depicts the four levels of training evaluation asrelated to ease of measurement, usual methods of evaluation, and the importance of eachlevel in terms of bottomline impact.ACCEPTANCE OF TRAININGThe process of gathering trainees’ reactions to the training is relatively uncomplicatedand usually attempts to measure subjective responses about the following:■ Overall trainee acceptance of the training;■ Specific positive or negative feedback about training content or trainingprocesses;■ Suggestions for improvement;■ Evaluations of certain phases; and■ The trainer’s effectiveness.The information provided by trainees’ reactions is useful for evaluatinginstructional content, delivery methods, the training staff, and the training environment.Trainees’ reactions can be gathered easily and inexpensively through interviews andendoftraining surveys. Unfortunately, trainees’ reactions are the least effectiveindicators of overall training effectiveness.GAINS IN SKILL OR KNOWLEDGETraining often is implemented because of the organization’s desire for employees tolearn something new. Level II (learning) evaluations attempt to determine whethertrainees actually have acquired skills or knowledge as a result of training. Gatheringsuch information is a more complex process than simply asking trainees for theirreactions.Information provided by Level II evaluation usually is more quantifiable than thehighly subjective reactions obtained during Level I evaluation. However, whensubjective information is being gathered, care needs to be taken in order to assure thatactual learnings rather than reactions are being measured.Level II evaluation often takes the form of performance evaluations and writtentests.■ Performance testing measures gains in performance levels by requiring traineesto demonstrate the skills being taught and by observing the results. ❚❘ 231■ Written testing measures gains in knowledge by means of paperandpenciltesting.Level II testing procedures can be elaborate or simple. In either case, care needs tobe taken to ensure that the tests are measuring gains in skill and knowledge and are notmeasuring skills and knowledge that were present prior to the training session.Expanded job skills and knowledge often are accurate predictors of improved onthejobperformance.IMPROVED PERFORMANCETraining most often takes place in order to alter trainees’ behavior. Level III evaluationsattempt to determine whether learning gains have been transferred to the job andwhether they have produced improved job performance.The measurement of job performance is considerably more complex than themeasurement of trainee reactions or of trainee learning. Effective performance appraisalassumes that valid indicators of successful performance have been developed and thatthese indicators have been integrated into a valid and reliable performanceevaluationsystem. Once valid performance evaluation criteria have been developed, onthejobimprovement is best assessed through supervisor evaluations.ORGANIZATIONAL RESULTSThe fourth level of evaluation is concerned with the “bottom line”—the degree to whichthe organization has benefited from the training. Any pertinent indicator of operationaleffectiveness may be used, such as data about sales, net profit, returns on investment, orinventory and employee turnover.When evaluating the bottom line, one must explore all pertinent criteria and selectthose that best indicate significant trainingrelated gains. Comparing the bottomlinedollar value of gains received as a result of training to the dollar cost of providing thetraining yields the net value of training. Sponsors of training must do their best to ensurethat the type and quantity of training that they have selected are usable and costeffective.Evaluation of training outcomes is an important part of the training process.However, Mayo and DuBois (1987) suggest that evaluation is not advisable under sixconditions:■ When an evaluation that will provide useful information cannot be designed;■ When an adequate evaluation design cannot be implemented;■ When the results from an evaluation will be inaccurate or misleading;■ When the cost of evaluating is greater than the potential benefits;232 ❘❚ ■ When those sponsoring the evaluation are highly motivated to prove or disprovesomething; and■ When no action will be taken as a result of the evaluation.REFERENCESDick, W., & Carey, W. (1985). The systematic design of instruction (2nd ed.). Glenview, IL: Scott, Foresman.Putman, A.O. (1989). Pragmatic evaluation. In F.H. Margolis & C.R. Bell (Eds.), Understanding training:Perspectives and practices. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Randall, L.K. (1960). Evaluation: A training dilemma. Journal of the American Society of Training Directors, 14,2935.Romiszowski, A.J. (1981). Designing instructional systems. New York: Nichols.SOURCEMayo, G.D., & DuBois, P.H. (1987). The complete book of training: Theory, principles, and techniques. SanDiego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Acceptance byTraineesGains in Skillor KnowledgeImprovedPerformanceOrganizationalResultsQuestionnairesInterviewsTests andCheck ListsSupervisoryRatingsJudgmentsCompany Records12344321Level ofEvaluationEase ofMeasurementHowMeasured ImportanceLevels of Training Evaluation234 ❘❚ ❚❘ NEW AGE TRAINING TECHNOLOGIESTraining technologies and methods that can be classified as “New Age” are consideredcontroversial and threatening by some, innovative and enriching by others. In general, toproponents of New Age thinking, the term means “. . . the desire to create a bettersociety . . . in which humanity lives in harmony with itself, nature, and the cosmos”(Adolph, 1988, p.6). Thus, advocates regard it as espousing more selfresponsibility forupholding a wider, more universal, morality. However, opponents see it as too focusedon the self—an abandonment of traditional morals.THE CONTROVERSYThree major issues plague the acceptance of New Age training technologies. First andmost significant is the issue of religion. Some Christians believe that New Age thinkingand New Agetype training are “demonic” and universally antiChristian (Burrows,1986); teach “a false religion” (Deo, 1987); and promote a world view of “monism” and“spiritism . . . involving occult correspondence” (Watring, 1987). Training becomesespecially controversial when it is viewed as an infringement of religious rights. In anarticle entitled “Corporate Mind Control,” Miller & Abramson (1987) describe theCalifornia Public Utilities Commission’s investigation of complaints about a mandatorytraining program sponsored by Pacific Bell. Conducted by management consultantCharles Krone, “Krone training” is based on the teachings of George Gurdjieff,Armenian philosopher and mystic. Pacific Bell employees objected to the training,which was billed as “leadership development,” and complained to the UtilitiesCommission that the exercises were mindcontrol sessions. If employees are forced toparticipate in sessions that they believe conflict with their religious beliefs, the religiousissue becomes a legal one. In some organizations, employees who have refused toparticipate in New Age training have been fired and have taken legal action based on theviolation of their right to religious freedom. Such incidents bring into question thelegality of mandating training that some say is against their beliefs.The second major issue is the charge of brainwashing or mind control, as in thePacific Bell/Krone case. Participants may be asked to suspend critical judgment or toenter a trancelike state in which they are subject to suggestion, which some believe cancause emotional distress.A third issue is distrust of the profit being made by New Age gurus. Reports aboutShirley MacLaine, who is funding a spiritual center in Colorado with the proceeds fromher seminars; about J.Z. Knight, who channels a $400asession spirit; or about otherNew Age proponents who make money from their offerings meet with much skepticism. ❚❘ 235The distinction between these and some of the ventures funded by various “religious”organizations has not been made clear.AN OVERVIEW OF NEW AGE TRAINING TECHNOLOGIESThe term New Age training technology needs to be distinguished from more personal orspiritual New Age explorations such as lucid dreaming, therapeutic prayer, channeling,crystal healing, pastlife regression, or occult practices such as astrology, tarot, ornumerology. New Age training technologies are described in the following sections.AffirmationsAn affirmation (Gawain, 1982; Helmstetter, 1986) is “a positive thought consciouslychosen to be immersed in consciousness to produce a certain desired result” (Ray, 1981,p. 34). It is based on the idea that beliefs create emotions, which influence actions and,thereby, the results one obtains. Positive beliefs influence actions positively; negativebeliefs do the opposite. Therefore, changing negative beliefs to positive ones can help tochange one’s life.An affirmation usually is written or spoken in the first person present tense with apositive, active verb; it describes a desired outcome as if it were already accomplishedor true (for example, “I am calm and cool when my boss criticizes me”). In training, theidea is that learning can be facilitated if the thought “I’ll never be able to do this” isreplaced by the positive affirmation “I am learning this easily and effortlessly.”Affirmations also are known as positive thinking, positive selftalk, positive programing,and thought selection.BiofeedbackThe term biofeedback (Marcer, 1986; Schwartz, 1987; Smith, 1975) originated inexperimental psychology. It refers to a continuous aural or visual report of changes inbodily reactions brought about by changes in thoughts and emotions. A feedbackmachine is electronically calibrated to communicate minute changes in brain waves,muscle contractions, temperature, or galvanic skin response. Using electronic feedbackinitially, over a period of time a person can learn to bring previously autonomicfunctions under conscious (if not rational or verbal) control. Biofeedback is used bymedical practitioners in the treatment of migraines, tension headaches, TMJ, stress, highblood pressure, and gastrointestinal problems. It is used in psychotherapy to treatanxiety or panic disorders.Because of the cost of the equipment and the time required, the biofeedbacktechnique is not likely to be used in group training, but it has been employed as a stressreduction technique. People who consistently are under the pressure of deadlines can use236 ❘❚ biofeedback to learn to keep themselves relaxed and calm in the face of continual rushand change.CenteringCentering (Carrington, 1977) creates a sense of inner balance (mental, emotional,physical, and spiritual) through mechanisms that focus one on a single point. Centeringdevices—such as focusing on a word, phrase, or object—separate one from externalstimuli and prepare one for a deeper state of spiritual communion such as meditation.For example, participants in a training session could be asked to close their eyes, “goinside” themselves, and pay attention to their breathing, allowing all parts of themselvesto achieve harmonious balance before beginning a difficult task.DianeticsDianetics (Hubbard, 1978), the foundation of Scientology, is “a science of mind”following the “natural laws of thought.” Negative past events (engrams) are stored ascellular traces in the body structure and can trigger irrational actions. Dianetics works byclearing, eliminating negative past events by auditing or pastoral counseling. Aspecially trained auditor listens, asks questions, recognizes psychological reactions byusing an Emeter (a device that records electrical resistance in the hands), and probesreactions to help clients find the answers that will lead them to clear.Guided ImageryGuided imagery (Meier, 1984; Zilbergeld & Lazarus, 1987) gives external direction tothe way in which a person represents objects and experiences in his or her mind. Theseimages might be visual, auditory, or kinesthetic. In guided imagery, a facilitator eithersuggests the outline of an experience and the person completes it with personalinformation, or the facilitator suggests an exact sequence, such as relaxing each muscleof the body in turn. Guided imagery works by allowing the person to release theanalytical part of his or her mind to a guide who leads him or her to receive informationfrom the intuitive part of the mind. This information may provide insights, answers,emotions, or experiences that formerly were unconscious. For example, a person may begiven the framework for consulting a sage (the person creates his or her own image of awise person), asking a question (the person creates the question), and receiving ananswer (the person also creates the answer). For relaxation, the suggested image mightbe a sunny beach or a quiet woodland trail.MeditationMeditation (Bloomfield, Cain, Jaffe, & Kory, 1975; Carrington, 1977; LeShan, 1974) isa method of attaining spiritual development through the disciplines of concentration ❚❘ 237(thinking about meaning); or contemplation (controlling one’s thoughts by focusing onan internal or external object); or, as in Transcendental Meditation (TM), throughnonfocused, nonconcentrative repetition of a mantra to direct one’s attention from afully developed thought level toward more basic and simple thought. Meditationalpractices also can be categorized by the aspect of human experience that they address:intellectual (a deep, mental understanding of reality), emotional (or an expansion ofpositive emotion), bodily (complete absorption in movement), or action (the practice ofa skill useful to others). Like imagery, meditation may be structured (directed) orunstructured. Meditation works by providing a nondistracting, focusing experience.Research indicates that this separation from the distractions of normal life results inalteration of brain waves. Relaxing and focusing also reduce stress and tension.Neurolinguistic Programing (NLP)Neurolinguistic programing (Bandler & Grinder, 1979) originated as a therapeuticpractice; it uses a detailed model of human experience and communication to bringabout changes in human behavior. This technique begins by determining a person’sprimary representational system (the way in which he or she typically interprets anddescribes events and feelings) from the predicates (adjectives, adverbs, and verbs) thatthe person uses and from the person’s eye movements. There are three representationalsystems:■ Visuals codify and recall things in pictures; their predicates reflect this (e.g., “Isee,” “I get the picture”).■ Auditories store and remember things in terms of sounds; they are apt to saythings such as, “That sounds good.”■ Kinesthetics process experiences and memories in terms of feelings (primarilyphysical). They use predicates such as, “I don’t like the feel of that” or “Get intouch with . . . .”An NLP therapist “matches” or mirrors the client’s representational system (pacing)to achieve rapport and increase trust. Once rapport is established, the therapist or trainercan then change his or her own behavior (leading) to cause changes in the other person.NLP therapists also use the techniques of anchoring, bridging, reframing, and metaphor.The primary use of NLP in HRD is to teach trainers, consultants, and managers how todo more matching of predicates in order to achieve rapport with the persons with whomthey are communicating.RelaxationRelaxation (Benson, 1975; Jacobson, 1938; Shealy, 1977) is the absence of musculartension and the accompanying mental calm. One relaxation technique is similar totranscendental meditation; in another, progressive relaxation, participants are directed to238 ❘❚ tighten muscles in each muscle group and then relax them. Relaxation works by slowingbreathing and metabolic rates, reducing oxygen consumption, eliminating carbondioxide from the system, and minimizing the frequency of visual and auditory imageryand stimuli. As a result, both thought and emotional processes diminish. Relaxation isused in training in the same way as suggested meditation or as preparation for anothertechnique.SelfHypnosisSelfhypnosis (Carrington, 1977; Murphy, 1963; Shealy, 1977; Smith, 1975; Zilbergeld& Lazarus, 1987), also known as autogenic (meaning selfcreated) training, involvesfocusing one’s attention on suggestions given to oneself in a selfinduced trance. In alight, goaloriented trance state, attention narrows to one or two thoughts, therebyreducing awareness of external surroundings and usual ways of perceiving and thinking.The concept behind hypnosis is that the mind eventually will accept as true that which itis told. Suggestions first focus on muscles and breathing and then on cognitive or actionoutcomes in a present or future state. In psychological applications, selfhypnosis is usedto treat various types of disorders. In HRD, selfhypnosis is used for stress management,to increase efficiency, as affirmation.Silva Mind ControlSilva Mind Control (Silva & Stone, 1983) is a process of changing one’s awarenessfrom everyday consciousness (beta) to a lower frequency consciousness (alpha) forbetter problem solving and increased memory, efficiency, and creativity. Through aprocess of physical and mental relaxation, followed by affirmation, visualization, andanchoring, one “uses the mind to mind itself.” The relaxation method consists of turningone’s eyes upward and counting back from one hundred to one (with practice, a shortercount will work). The suggested anchor is to put three fingers together. The suggestedvision process is to see the situation first as it is, then in positive change (viewing thesecond image on the left to activate the right brain), then to see the situation resolved.This process can be used to accomplish personal goals, increase group commitment, ormaintain energy and enthusiasm.SuggestologySuggestology is the science of freeing and stimulating the personality, both underguidance and alone. Suggestopedy (Lozanov, 1978; Ostrander & Schroeder, 1979) is itsapplication in instruction. The goal of suggestopedy is to help people to use both thebody and the mind at peak efficiency to develop supermemory and superlearningcapacities. Suggestopedy operates on the principles of joy and relaxation in learning,integration of conscious and paraconscious brain activity, and maximum use of reservecapacities. In the American method, participants first are trained in relaxation, ❚❘ 239visualization, breathing, and affirmation. Next, the material to be learned is presentedwith readings, plays, and games. In the final, memoryreinforcement session,participants relax and breathe rhythmically in time to Baroque music while the instructorrecites or chants, using three different intonations. Suggestopedy has been used toenhance foreignlanguage learning and to increase memory.VisualizationVisualization (Gawain, 1982; Zilbergeld & Lazarus, 1987) uses the imagination tocreate experience in one or more sensory modes. Visualization can be receptive,relaxing and allowing images and impressions to surface as they will; or active,consciously choosing or creating what is desired to be felt or experienced. Receptivevisualization works by reducing the analytical activity of the brain, allowingunconscious thoughts, emotions, or insights to emerge. An example of this is when theanswer to a problem emerges in a state of quiet. Active visualization works by givingform to thought (e.g., creating an image of a new job). The most effective visualizationsare specific, controlled, positive, active, simple, repeated, and selfrewarding.YogaYoga is a Hindu practice that takes four forms: (a) Raja yoga, meditation throughcontemplation and concentration on universal truths; (b) Jnana yoga, meditation on thevarious natures of one’s self; (c) Karma yoga, active meditation on the path of service toothers; and (d) Bhaki yoga, meditation using prayer and chanting for the purpose ofpraising others and divinity.Hatha yoga (Oki, 1970) which is a preparation for any of these four forms, followsthe principle that a healthy body means a healthy mind. Hatha yoga uses breathingexercises and postures in a set of systematic movements designed to keep the body in aconstant state of balance. The original purpose of yoga was spiritual enlightenment; inthe Western world, hatha yoga often is used as a form of exercise and relaxation.THE BEST AND THE SAFEST OPTIONSRelaxation, affirmation, and visualization emerge as the best and safest of the New Agetraining technologies for the following reasons:1. They combine both the analytical and the intuitive functions of the brain,especially if the experience is adequately explained and processed; therefore,suspension of critical judgment is less of a problem than with other techniques.2. They are “readily available, easy to learn, and simple to use . . .  harnessnatural abilities” (Zilbergeld & Lazarus, 1987, p. 12).3. They empower the participants to control the process (choosing whether or not torelax and how, determining their own affirmations, and creating their own240 ❘❚ visualizations) because the trainer gives process instructions rather than contentinstructions.4. They have a proven success record in the learning field (Ostrander & Schroeder,1979) and the human resource development field (Gentilman & Nelson, 1983;Robinson, 1984; Spice & Kopperl, 1984; Wilson, 1987).TYPICAL DRAWBACKSDrawbacks to New Age training technologies are the same as drawbacks to other typesof training programs: training takes time to deliver, reinforce, and support; it costsmoney; it may meet with resistance; and it may stimulate certain individuals to takeaction of which management does not approve. The last drawback could occur with anykind of training in which employees feel more empowered (e.g., assertion, problemsolving, decision making, dealing with conflict, and stress management).HOW THE BEST METHODS CAN BENEFIT PEOPLE ANDORGANIZATIONSIn order for the techniques to be safe (both legally and psychologically) as well asworkable, participants must be in control of choosing and using the techniques(Fitzgerald, 1987; Robinson, 1985). In addition, trainers must know the purposes andeffects of the techniques, have been trained in the processes themselves, experiencepositive personal results with the techniques, use them voluntarily, frame the training inconcepts that are familiar to participants and that relate to the value of the training,process the experiences afterward with the participants, and plan for followup.Relaxation, affirmation, and visualization have been used effectively by Olympicathletes, the medical profession, and the psychological profession. Human resourcedevelopment practitioners use them in:■ wholebrain training (Herrmann, 1987),■ learning skills (Meier, 1985),■ program design (Chalofsky, 1987),■ featuring skills (Gentilman & Nelson, 1983),■ stress management (Jenner, 1986),■ influencing subordinates’ performance (Sandler, 1986),■ changing an organization’s future (Lynch, 1986),■ improving performance (Friedrich, 1987), ❚❘ 241■ motivating teamwork (Carlson, 1987), and■ transforming large organizations (Veltrop, 1987).These techniques can be used by “basically normal people who want to extend theircapabilities” to whatever productive ends they wish (Zilbergeld & Lazarus, 1987, p. 15).New Age training technologies need not be attached to metaphysical, psychological, orspiritual theories; they can be presented in familiar language to become less intimidatingand more workable. As accelerated learning techniques, they can be used as a means tomany training ends and can be taught profitably alone.The use of relaxation, affirmation, and visualization can produce additionalbenefits. Practitioners of these techniques may find themselves:■ More open to change, with the knowledge that they have some control over theirown attitudes, options, actions, and reactions;■ More able to concentrate and to focus on tasks;■ More creative, with greater resources for generating ideas and alternatives;■ More responsible, realizing that what happens is, at least in part, a result of howthey manage their mental lives; and■ More effective at dealing with others and more flexible and adaptable.These techniques are empowering; empowered people are happier and more productiveboth at home and at work. Clearly, people who have a basic knowledge of the New Agetechniques of relaxation, affirmation, and visualization can be assets to theirorganizations. Moreover, these techniques are gaining in popularity at a time whenorganizations are being urged to empower their employees.REFERENCESAdolph, J. (1988). What is new age? In F. Graves (Ed.), The guide to new age living. Brighton, MA: Rising StarAssociates.Bandler, R., & Grinder, J. (1979). Frogs into princes. Moab, UT: Real People Press.Benson, H. (1975). The relaxation response. New York: Avon Books.Bloomfield, H., Cain, M., Jalfe, D., & Kory, R. (1975). TM* discovering inner energy and overcoming stress. NewYork: Delacorte Press.Burrows, R. (1986). Americans get religion in the new age. Christianity Today, 30(5), 1723.Carlson, R. (1987). How can trainers minimize risks of new age training? Training and Development Journal,4(12), 18.Carrington, P. (1977). Freedom in meditation. Kendall Park, NJ: Pace Educational Systems.Chalofsky, N. (1987, June). Zen and the art of program design. Paper presented at the American Society forTraining and Development National Conference, Atlanta, GA.Deo, L. (1987). Sound the alarm. Training and Development Journal, 41(8), 6.242 ❘❚ Fitzgerald, P. (1987). Four by four: How can trainers minimize risks of new age training? Training andDevelopment Journal, 41(12), 1821.Gawain, S. (1982). Creative visualization. Toronto: Bantam Books.Gentilman, R., & Nelson, B. (1983). Futuring: The process and implications for training & developmentpractitioners. Training and Development Journal, 37(6), 3138.Helmstetter, S. (1986). What to say when you talk to your self. New York: Pocket Books.Herrmann, N. (1987, June). What does the brain have to do with me, anyway? Paper presented at the AmericanSociety for Training and Development National Conference, Atlanta.Hubbard, L.R. (1978). Dianetics: The modern science of mental health. Los Angeles: Bridge Publications.Jacobson, E. (1938). Progressive relaxation. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Jenner, J. (1986). On the way to stress resistance. Training and Development Journal, 40(5), 112114.LeShan, L. (1974). How to meditate. New York: Bantam Books.Lozanov, G. (1978). Suggestology and outlines of suggestopedy. New York: Gordon and Breach.Lynch, D. (1986). Is the brain stuff still the right (or left) stuff? Training and Development Journal, 40(2), 2326.Marcer, D. (1986). Biofeedback and related therapies in clinical practice. Rockville, MD: Aspen.Meier, D. (1985). New age learning: From linear to geodesic. Training and Development Journal, 39(5), 3943.Miller, A., & Abramson, P. (1987, May 4). Corporate mind control. Newsweek, pp. 3839.Murphy, J. (1963). The power of your subconscious mind. New York: Bantam Books.Oki, M. (1970). Practical yoga. Tokyo: Japan Publications.Ostrander, S., & Schroeder, L. (1979). Superlearning. New York: Delta Books.Ray, S. (1981). The only diet there is. Berkeley, CA: Celestial Arts.Robinson, A. (1984). What you see is what you get. Training and Development Journal, 38(5), 3439.Robinson, A. (1985). How to have a safe trip to the cutting edge. Training and Deuelopment Journal, 39(5), 4548.Sandler, L. (1986). Selffulfilling prophecy: Better management by magic. Training: The Magazine of HumanResources Development, 23(2), 6064.Schwartz, M. (1987). Biofeedback: A practitioner’s guide. New York: Guilford Press.Shealy, C.N. (1977). Ninety days to selfhealth: Biogenics: How to control all types of stress by yourself through acomplete health program of autogenics, diet, vitamins, and exercise. New York: Dial Press.Silva, J., & Stone, R.B. (1983). The Silva mind control method for business managers. Englewood Cliffs, NJ:PrenticeHall.Smith, A. (1975). Powers of mind. New York: Random House.Spice, M., & Kopperl, S. (1984). Are your trainees willing? Training and Development Journal, 38(5), 3032.Veltrop, B. (1987). How can trainers minimize risks of new age training? Training and Development Journal,41(12), 21.Watring, R. (1987). Issues. Training and Development Journal, 41(4), 8.Wilson, L. (1987, June). Changing the game. Paper presented at the American Society for Training andDevelopment National Conference, Atlanta, GA.Zilbergeld, B., & Lazarus, A. (1987). Mind power. Boston, MA: Little, Brown. ❚❘ 243SOURCEByrum, B. (1989). New age training technologies: The best and the safest. In J.W. Pfeiffer (Ed.), The 1989 annual:Developing human resources. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.244 ❘❚ RelaxationAffirmationVisualization ❚❘ 245❚❘ PREDESIGN CONSIDERATIONS:PARTICIPANTS, TIMING, PHYSICAL FACILITIES,STAFFING, IMPLEMENTATION, AND EVALUATIONBefore a training event can be designed, the training objectives must be established. Fortraining objectives to be clear, there often must be a training needs assessment. Also, itis much more difficult to design training if one does not know how and by whom thetraining will be evaluated. Although needs assessment and evaluation are separate HRDfunctions from design, in reality they may be performed by the same people. Because oftheir interrelationships, they all need to be considered to some degree in the initial stageof planning a training event.Design is the bridge between what the trainer wants to accomplish with (or in) atraining event and how it will be done. Before attempting to design a training event, oneshould have answers to eight basic questions:1. Why is the training being conducted?2. What is to be the focus of the training?3. Who is to be trained?4. When is the training to be done?5. Where is the training to be conducted?6. Who is to conduct the training?7. How will the training be designed?8. Why, how, and by whom will the training be evaluated?The “Why?” question is answered by needs assessment. The “What?” questionrelates to the training objectives. Both of these topics are addressed in separate articlesin this section of Volume 25.The first “Who?” is a question about participant considerations. “When?” relates tothe length and timing of a training event. “Where?” asks about the location and physicalfacilities. The second “Who?” is a question about staffing considerations. “How?”relates to implementation considerations. The final questions are asked in regard totraining evaluation. The ways to find answers to all these questions are addressed in thisarticle.246 ❘❚ WHO?: PARTICIPANT CONSIDERATIONSOne of the major factors to be considered before a training program is designed relatesto the composition and needs of the group of people who will be participating in thetraining.The Number of ParticipantsIt is important to be able to anticipate how many people will be involved in the trainingprogram because some design components require a large number of participants whileothers are designed to be used with very small groups. The size of the total group willdictate the size and number of small groups that can be formed to achieve variousobjectives. Subgroups of three to seven members each tend to be optimal.The designer also must consider the level of affect (emotional response) that islikely to be generated by each design component. A facilitator can handle a larger groupif there will be minimal risk taking, conflict, or emotional involvement. If participantswill be “pushed,” the facilitator will need to devote more time and energy to eachparticipant, so the group must be smaller or there must be additional facilitators.The Familiarity of Participants with One AnotherThis consideration is important in selecting learning experiences. For example, it maynot be necessary to include “icebreaker” activities if the participants are familiar withone another. What often happens is that some participants know one another but there isan unequal acquaintanceship within the group. The design of the training event shouldtake into account that there might be some natural subdivision because of previoussocial acquaintance.One can capitalize on the relationships that participants bring to a trainingexperience by using acquaintanceship as a means of support for planning backhomeapplications and for followthrough. However, although intact groups (groups withestablished relationships), such as work groups, might achieve a greater transfer oflearning, the members also might be reluctant to be entirely open. Instead, participantswho are strangers to one another (and unlikely to continue the relationship after thetraining event) may gain greater intimacy and openness at the possible expense of a lesseffective transfer of learning. It can be desirable to use this information in forminggroups, assigning staff to the particular groups, and selecting activities for the beginningand end of the experience.The homogeneity or heterogeneity of the group—the group composition—alsoneeds to be considered. Heterogeneity can lead to greater confrontation but can providethe group with a wider range of resources. Homogeneity can lead to greater intimacyand affection among participants but also to less variety, which can restrict the learningpossibilities available to the group. In general, heterogeneous groups are richer, but eachindividual needs to be able to identify with at least one other person in the group. It also ❚❘ 247is desirable if all the participants are at about the same level in terms of contentbackground and previous training experience.The Backgrounds and Previous Training Experiences of the ParticipantsIt is important to consider whether the training might be dissonant with the norms andculture of the institutional backgrounds of the various participants or of that withinwhich the training is to take place. One might not want to ask the participants to learnand change their attitudes in ways that are contrary to the ideology of their backhomesituations. The organizational climate of the client organization may not understand orbe supportive of training, and the implications of this need to be considered.Before attempting the design, the facilitators should try to learn something aboutthe backgrounds of the participants in regard to experiential approaches to education.This includes information about the initial goals, needs, and readiness of theparticipants. It is important to know whether participants have been in similar trainingprograms before, because they may already have experienced some training activitiesthat are being considered in which the learning depends on the novelty of the experienceto the participants. It may be that some participants have been engaged in activities thatare highly similar to those that are being planned. This need not be a negative factor;people who have experienced similar training before may be formed into an advancedgroup; they may be spread out deliberately across several learning groups; or they maybe asked to volunteer for demonstrations of hereandnow interaction.In addition, it may be helpful to know what the attitudes of the participants areregarding one another and the stated content or objectives of the training program andwhether they have received any preparation for the training event from the sponsor. Thelatter can be achieved by means of wordofmouth communication, a memorandum toprospective participants, or a brochure that specifies the learning goals of the event.WHEN?: THE LENGTH AND TIMING OF A TRAINING EVENTThe length and timing of a training event are important in that the sequencing and timingof particular events are dependent in part on whether the training takes place at one timeor is spaced over several meetings. Training that occurs weekly for an hour or twopresents a significantly different design problem than does a oneday event. In manycases, a primary issue is how to accelerate learning within time constraints. In a briefcontact design such as one evening or onehalf day, some learning modules would notbe attempted because either there would not be enough trust developed in the timeavailable or more data might be generated than could be processed adequately.Likewise, spaced sessions (e.g., weekly twohour sessions) probably would produce aless intimate and less personcentered experience, whereas more condensed or intensivesessions (e.g., a oneweek retreat) might offer more personal growth. Spaced sessionsmay allow greater analysis of group dynamics and encourage members to “workthrough” issues between sessions.248 ❘❚ Defined time limits within the event itself also can affect the training. Setting limitsfor various activities can encourage participants to express useful information by the endof the allotted time period, but also can establish the facilitator’s role as the locus ofcontrol or authority. Similarly, the facilitators need to decide whether starting andending times for sessions, break times, and meal times will be adhered to strictly orloosely. The facilitator should ask the person who is requesting the training programwhether starting and ending times, lunch times, and break times can be arranged to suitthe participants. If the client says “no,” the time constraints are givens. Norms willdevelop as a result of the following factors: (a) the total time allocated to the groupexperience; (b) the time distribution (sessions at regular intervals, one intensive week,etc.); and (c) session time limits and adherence to limits.Finally, if the event is to be conducted within an organization, the length and timingof each session should coincide as much as possible with organizational realities such asschedules, work loads, cafeteria hours, transportation, and so on.WHERE?: THE LOCATION AND PHYSICAL FACILITIESThis consideration is important in that it is easier to develop what is called a “culturalisland” effect in a retreat setting than it is in the everyday environment of theparticipants. It is more possible in a retreat setting to capitalize on the development ofnorms of meaningful openness, experimentation, and sensitivity in creating anenvironment in which people are genuinely resourceful to one another during the freetime of the training event. Some of the most significant learning in HRD training takesplace outside the formally planned sessions.The physical facilities also are important; ordinarily, movable furniture and privacyare desired. Auditoriums usually are too inflexible, and sometimes very large openspaces are detrimental to the training design. It also is important to anticipate whetherthe training event is likely to be interrupted by nonparticipants, telephone calls, andother annoyances.The physical setup also can affect the training. The designers should consider whereand how the groups will work; what kind of atmosphere the physical surroundings willcreate; and how the physical environment can be arranged to support the learningobjectives. For example, different group arrangements can have different effects. Acircle of chairs distributes power and promotes interaction. Flexible seating often isdesired so that participants can move around, form groups, and so on. For processing,the fishbowl arrangement can be particularly effective. Tables can be a hindrance forattitude training, and sometimes even chairs can. In such cases, it is best to have circlesof chairs or to have the participants sit on the floor. Wider tables create more distanceand more formal interaction. People at the ends of rectangular tables tend to have morepower and control. On the other hand, circular, square, and triangular seatingarrangements tend to equalize power. No matter what the seating arrangements, it is bestif participants select their own places. ❚❘ 249WHO?: STAFFING CONSIDERATIONSAnother concern in training design is the availability of qualified staff to facilitate thetraining program. This includes consideration of the personalities, styles, preferredlearning models, philosophies, and assumptions of the various staff members, whichmight cause role conflicts. The following issues should be resolved prior to the trainingevent, and the design should be agreed to by all who will be involved in facilitating theevent.Skills/RepertoireThe facilitators’ ability to handle certain types of group experiences and their range ofcompetence should be a major consideration. The design of the experience should takeinto account the capabilities of the staff members as well as their preparedness inattempting various learning goals. If the staff members are minimally qualified, it maybe necessary to use a great deal of instrumentation and structure to make up for theirlack of supervised experience. The intensity level of the training event also should bemodified somewhat depending on the expertise of the available staff. If the credentialsof the staff members are somewhat suspect, it may be necessary to develop fairly strictcontrols on the amount of affect that is generated in the experience itself; i.e., activitiesthat might generate a great deal of feeling data might not be used because, in general,they require much more expertise on the part of the facilitators.Personality and Style VariablesSome facilitators work more readily with their own aggression, some with theiraffection, and others remain detached and unemotional. These differences may bejustified or institutionalized as differences in role perception and style, but they reallymay be attributable to personality differences (i.e., personal styles or social styles)among staff members. Because the models of role conflict and resolution ofinterpersonal differences in the staff team could influence the participants’ learning, it isimportant to review style preferences when selecting the training staff.Facilitators also may have differences of opinion about training approaches. Thefollowing are some examples of these and suggestions for handling them (Cooper &Harrison, 1976).■ Mechanistic/Organic Approaches. If one staff member insists on structuring agroup experience, and another wants to respond to group needs spontaneously,the entire experience may suffer. In such a case, it is necessary to synthesizethese two approaches into a productive design.■ Modeling/Scanning. Trainers who adopt a learning theory based on modelingmight find that they are encouraging noticeable but shortterm change. If, instead,they encourage group members to use one another as learning sources, through anapproach based on scanning the interactions of group members, participants may250 ❘❚ actually show less change, but the approach may prompt major, internalizedchange.■ Group or Personal Growth. Staff disagreement about the level of interventioncan create normative problems in that participants can receive conflictingmessages about the learning objectives of the group. On the other hand, theconflict can provide the participants with a wider range of learning. These issuesinclude the orientations of the facilitators toward (a) understanding the dynamicsof the group or (b) developing the growth potential of individuals, as well aswhether they believe that these orientations can coexist.Staff CompositionThe composition of the training staff will influence the norms and learning objectives ofthe participants. The inclusion of both male and female staff members can provideopportunities to focus on issues that otherwise might not surface. Other variables includethe number of staff members and the mix of staff members with different occupationalidentifications.Administration of the ProgramFinally, in planning the staffing of an event, it is important to know whether the trainersalso will be the administrators of the program. This requires more time and effort ontheir part and may create a somewhat conflicting situation.HOW?: IMPLEMENTATION CONSIDERATIONSThe ContractThis item may be the most important and it has two dimensions. First, it is critical thatthe facilitator have a clear sense of what the contract with the client system is. In thebest circumstances, this consideration relates to one’s skill in conducting a needsassessment, in determining learning objectives, and in specifying goals. At one end ofthe spectrum, the client may specify what is to be done (what type of training is to bedelivered), although few clients have the expertise to stipulate how this is to beachieved. It then is the facilitator’s job to determine whether he or she can accept suchan assignment in good conscience. Generally, the client will ask for some type oftraining; the facilitator will ask relevant questions; and then the facilitator will suggestwhat type of training might be most appropriate, based on the completion of somedegree of needs assessment. When the training to be delivered is agreed to, the means ofdelivery may be specified in the contract, or it may be left up to the facilitator todetermine what will work. In such a case, the facilitator may want to leave someflexibility in the design in order to negotiate aspects of it with the participants. ❚❘ 251The contract between the facilitator and the participants is the second dimension ofcontracting. It is important to narrow the expectation gap between oneself and theparticipants in the training event. It also is important to recognize that the psychologicalcontract and the legal contract may not be the same. It is important that the goals and thelearning method of the event be specified beforehand in language that both the staffmembers and the participants can understand. The design is far more likely to have achance to be effective if the participants come to the learning experience knowing whatto expect, why they are there, and what they have contracted to experience. However, itis also important to establish more specific expectations, behavioral norms, and so on,with the participants at the beginning of the training event. In some cases, this can bestbe achieved by means of a contract between the facilitator and the participants. Egan(1972) and Karp (1985) describe the development of such contracts.Access to Materials and Other AidsAccess to training materials and other aids in terms of availability, budget, andconvenience is an important consideration. Some materials, such as standardizedmeasurement instruments, are expensive, and others require a great deal of time toprepare or assemble. Some teaching aids, such as videotape recorders, are difficult tocarry from place to place. The facilitator needs to develop an inventory of materials thatare available: newsprint flip charts, felttipped markers, easels, and masking tape;chalkboards, chalk, and erasers; blank paper and pencils; overhead projectors and otheraudiovisual aids; as well as work sheets, instruments, and handouts. It often is veryuseful to have duplicating equipment at the training site.Opportunity for FollowThroughA final consideration is the opportunity to follow through with the participants after thetraining experience is formally ended.Although this concern is listed last, it is by no means of least importance. Whendeveloping a design for a learning event, it is important to know beforehand what isgoing to happen afterward. Is it going to be feasible for participants to meet again towork through the problems of transfer of training? Are they going to have access to oneanother on a daytoday basis? Is the staff going to be accessible to them afterward? Is itpossible to have followup sessions some weeks or months later to ensure transfer oftraining? Part of the application of learning to the participants’ own work and socialsettings can be designed differently if there is an opportunity for some support andfollowthrough work after the training event is completed.Prior to developing the design for a particular training event, the facilitator shouldexplore what he or she has to work with in terms of time, space, staff, money, humanresources, and materials. Once such an inventory is completed, the facilitator mayconclude that the contracted goals of the learning experience are unattainable given the252 ❘❚ resources that are available. The facilitator then may want to renegotiate the contract orattempt to develop new resources for the event.WHY, WHAT, HOW, AND WHO?: TRAINING EVALUATIONThe issue of training evaluation raises several questions:■ Why is evaluation being done?■ What is being evaluated?■ Who should set the learning standards?■ Who will be conducting the evaluation, i.e., who will judge the results of thetraining (participants, facilitators, both of these, outside individuals or groups)?■ How is the evaluation to be done, i.e., how will results be monitored/evaluated?By what measures? By what criteria?The answers to the first two questions will help to answer the overall question:“Should evaluation be done?” Evaluation is not always necessary, and unnecessaryevaluation may not be a good idea because it is time consuming and expensive andbecause it generates expectations that something will be done with the data obtained. Sothe answer to the “should” question almost always is either “Yes, if . . .” or “Notunless . . . .” Yes, if it is driven by a purpose: to determine something or to justifysomething. No, if the results will not be used, if the trainers or the client do not carewhat the results are, or if the subject matter or results may be too sensitive.The purpose of evaluation is to obtain information. Before initiating or agreeing toan evaluation effort, it is wise to ask: What kind of information do you need? Whatkinds of questions are you trying to answer? What questions will give you thatinformation?The impetus to begin training and development in an organization often comes frommanagement’s belief that training is an important benefit to employees, that it is aworthwhile investment and that it will help employees to fulfill their potential. However,management also hopes that it will increase personal and job satisfaction, increasemotivation and productivity, and decrease turnover. In today’s organizations, theemphasis often is on “the bottom line,” return on investment. Managers and others whocontract for training programs need to understand that it is impossible to measure theeffects of training in such terms. One would have to measure all the other factors in theorganization, over a stipulated period of time, in order to determine what part trainingplayed. Obviously, this would be almost impossible if not merely more time consumingand expensive than would be realistic. However, many managers still ask for training tobe measured in terms of “increased productivity” or “effect on morale” or similarresults. The HRD staff must educate such people in the realities of measurement andresearch. Behavior does not change in the moment at the time of training. A host ofpersonal and organizational factors affect how well the training “takes” and whether ❚❘ 253changed attitudes or behaviors are permitted, supported, and reinforced in theworkplace. Too often, the people who expect an evaluation are as confused about whatis to be measured as they are about why the evaluation is being done.Probably the best reason for evaluating training is to help the facilitators to examinethe design and to improve it, if necessary. Probably the worst reason is to prove that thetraining was worth the time and effort that it took. If those who are sponsoring thetraining (this problem occurs primarily in organizational contexts) do not understand theintangible effects of human resource development, the trainers would be wise to educatethem or to seek work elsewhere.What can be measured realistically is whether the participants were satisfied withthe training; whether they felt valued because of having been offered the training;whether they thought it was interesting, helpful, or useful; and whether they think thatthey will use the skills, change their attitudes or behaviors, or have achieved some typeof selfdevelopment as a result of the training. Some discrete skills also can be measuredin a short period of time.The most important thing in deciding to do evaluation is to be clear about why youare doing it, what or whom you are doing it for, and what or whom you are evaluating.Evaluation done for the purpose of justification is different from evaluation done for thepurpose of documentation, and that is quite different from evaluation done to determinesomething.The evaluation forms or survey materials should be geared toward obtaining theresponses or the quantity and quality of information that you need. For example,justification might include the need to show that the trainees were satisfied with thetraining. The evaluation form then would not ask “Were you satisfied with thetraining?”; rather, it would contain questions such as “Which activity (or part of thetraining) was the most satisfying?” The report then could say that the data shows that____ percent of the trainees found ____ portion of the training to be the most satisfying.For documentation, you may need to show that so many people attended, that there wasfollowup, that the training was timely or what was requested, etc., or you may need tokeep a head count in order to show that so many people were trained per year or that somany managers were included in the HRD efforts. In order to determine something, youneed to frame the inquiry so as to elicit useful information (e.g., What other job skillswould be useful in this training program? How do you plan to use this training?). Thetechniques used to obtain information for evaluation purposes are basically the same asthose used to obtain information for the needs assessment.If the training facilitators are not to be involved in the evaluation phase, they shouldbe permitted to assess the evaluator methods and to know who the evaluators will be.This is necessary for two reasons. The first is that one cannot design effectively untilone knows what will be evaluated. When the goals of the training and the outcomes tobe measured are specified clearly and are related to each other, the training staff has aclear notion of what to design for.254 ❘❚ The second reason to ask questions about evaluation before beginning are related toprofessional ethics if not selfpreservation. If it is not clear that the evaluation has arealistic purpose, that the proper issues or people are being assessed, that themethodology suits the purpose, and that the evaluators are qualified to conduct theinquiry, then the facilitators may well question whether they want to accept a trainingassignment that will be evaluated inappropriately.REFERENCESCooper, C.L., & Harrison, K. (1976). Designing and facilitating experiential group activities: Variables and issues.In J.W. Pfeiffer & J.E. Jones (Eds.), The 1976 annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA:Pfeiffer & Company.Egan, G. (1972). Contracts in encounter groups. In J.W. Pfeiffer & J.E. Jones (Eds.), The 1972 annual handbookfor group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Karp, H.B. (1985). The use of the training contract. In L.D. Goodstein & J.W. Pfeiffer (Eds.), The 1985 annual:Developing human resources. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Design skills in human resource development (UATT Series, Vol. 2). SanDiego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 255❚❘ SENSITIVITY TRAININGSensitivity training is a part of human relations training that aims to make people act andfeel differently, not merely to change their thinking. It is based on the concept ofempathy, which is to actually perceive a situation with another person’s viewpoint andemotions (Tannenbaum, Weschler, & Massarik, 1961).Sensitivity training is based on these beliefs:1. Interpersonal relations make up a substantial amount of our lives, both at homeand at work.2. Our ability to deal with others can be hampered by a lack of understanding andinterpersonal skills.3. These deficiencies can be changed and/or improved.Sensitivity training is intended to better our behavioral flexibility (ability to changeour behavior to suit the situation) and our social sensitivity (empathy with others). Itworks to promote the following:■ Understanding of Self: Resolving our internal personality conflicts in order toreach a greater understanding and level of acceptance of ourselves. We mustbecome aware of our defenses and of behavioral traits that may communicateunwanted or unintended messages to others.■ Understanding of Others: This, of course, is not possible until selfunderstanding is achieved. In reaching an understanding of others, one must learnto let go of “snap judgments,” stereotypes, and prejudices; one also must learn toaccept and appreciate the differences among people instead of reacting negativelyor defensively to them.■ Understanding of How Groups Work: In every group, issues of dominance,hierarchy, relationships, hidden agendas, and so on, arise. Becoming aware ofthese occurrences is the first step in learning to challenge them when they happenand to eradicate them from the group process.■ Culture Recognition: It is important to recognize an organization’s unique“personality”: its way of doing things, style of management, values, and so on.Sensitivity training can enhance employees’ awareness of their organization’sculture, thus providing them with a greater understanding of how things operateand what to do and not to do.■ Behavioral Training: New awareness will be worthless if people who receivesensitivity training do not put their learnings into practice. Most sensitivitytraining in the area of behavioralskills modification involves training in256 ❘❚ communication. Participants are taught how to listen, how to express theirfeelings (emotions as well as reactions to others’ verbal and nonverbalcommunication), and how to combine the two.Sensitivity training tends to be an unstructured, experimental, somewhat unsettlingprocess. People tend to become uncomfortable and defensive when their behavior istalked about or criticized, yet this step is essential in order to produce behavioral change.Sensitivity training is best carried out in a smallgroup setting, which permits maximuminteraction and participation by group members. In addition, the best atmosphere inwhich to conduct sensitivity training can be described as “permissive”; i.e., a tolerant,nonjudgmental atmosphere in which people feel free to speak their minds and do notfeel pressured to act or behave in any prescribed manner.Trainers who conduct sensitivitytraining workshops must take care to do thefollowing:1. Create situations in which learning can take place. The trainer leads the groupthrough exercises or structured experiences that provide interaction and feedbackby group members.2. Model the desired behavior. The trainer must serve as a behavioral example. Heor she must be open, accepting, flexible, willing to share feelings, and noncritical.This will help to establish a similar atmosphere among participants.3. Introduce new values. The trainer’s behavior reflects his or her values andbeliefs. By appearing to be concerned with a certain type of behavior, forexample, the trainer indicates to participants that this behavior is significant andneeds to be dealt with.4. Facilitate communication. The trainer identifies participants’ defenses orcommunication blocks, focuses the group’s energy on these blocks, and therebyhelps the group to work through them.5. Function as an expert. Especially at the beginning of a sensitivitytrainingsession, participants will want their trainer to demonstrate expertise and authorityover the group process (by answering questions, establishing a structure, and soon). Trainers must take care to shift as much responsibility for the session aspossible onto the group members. Without “owning” their session, participantswill not feel as responsible for their progress and learning.Trainers must be prepared to deal with participants’ resistance to change. Bypointing out a person’s defense mechanisms, trainers can help that person to becomeaware of this behavior for the first time. Defenses are ways of covering up fears (aboutoneself and about others), selfdoubts, and even laziness. The trainer’s job is to helppeople to understand the sensitivitytraining process, thus alleviating their fears; to helpthem to understand and accept themselves; and to help them to accept personalresponsibility for changing those aspects of their behavior that are found to be unwantedor objectionable. ❚❘ 257Sensitivitytraining facilitators sometimes are accused of “playing with people’sheads” or “stirring up trouble.” Of course, a trainer must be able to sense when to push aparticipant and when to ease the pressure. It is important to remember, though, that theparticipants alone are responsible for the outcome of the training session. If participantsaccept this responsibility, they will be less likely to place blame on the trainer or toallow themselves to be pushed past their limits.REFERENCETannenbaum, R., Weschler, F., & Massarik, I.R. (1961). Leadership and organization: A behavioral scienceapproach. New York: McGrawHill.258 ❘❚ ❚❘ SYSTEMIC DESIGN OF INSTRUCTIONModels of instructional design tend to focus on only one element of the instructionalprocess. When this happens, the systemic nature of instruction can be overlooked orignored. In response to these concerns, Dick and Carey (1985) developed a behaviorallybased model of instructional design. The model is based on the authors’ belief thatinstruction is a systemic process in which every element in the system is essential to thelearning process.A SYSTEMS VIEWInstruction is composed of several interrelated elements that operate together to producespecific results. All elements in the system are interdependent for input and output, andthe entire system utilizes feedback to determine whether its goals have been reached.Within the instructional system, the specified goal is learning. The elements that interactto create a learning environment are instructors (trainers), learners (trainees), learningmaterials, and learning environments. In Dick and Carey’s instructional system, testsare “instructional thermostats” that provide feedback to the system about whether goalsare being attained.Dick and Carey’s systems model consists of several interrelated steps that providefor the design, development, implementation, and evaluation of instruction. Asillustrated in the figure on the next page, each step relies on input from previous steps inorder to produce an output, which subsequently becomes input for the next step. Eachstep then becomes a feedback mechanism for the previous steps.STEP ONE: IDENTIFY THE INSTRUCTIONAL GOALSThe first step in the model is to identify the instructional goals. From a systemsapproach, training and instruction are problemsolving processes. Yet in order to solveproblems, one must first identify them. In an organizational context, problemidentification typically is labeled needs assessment. Whether formal or informal, needsassessment techniques require the identification of the gap between “what is” and “whatshould be.” This gap is regarded as a problem that must be resolved. Through theidentification of the problem and of the behavioral changes that must occur to resolvethe problem, instructional goals can be set.Effective instructional goals are precise statements of observable behavior thatdescribe hopedfor, posttraining behavior on the part of the trainees. Fuzzy goals, onthe other hand, are abstract statements of nonobservable internal conditions. Forexample, a goal such as “trainees will be aware of . . .” contains the nonobservable and ❚❘ 259WritePerformanceObjectivesDevelop CriterionReferencedTest ItemsReviseInstructionDevelopInstructionalStrategyDevelop and SelectInstructionalMaterialsDesign and ConductFormativeEvaluationDesign and ConductSummativeEvaluationIdentifyInstructionalGoalsIdentify EntryBehaviors andCharacteristicsConductInstructionalAnalysisSystemsApproach Model for Instructional Design*nonmeasurable criterion of awareness. A more effective statement of the same goal,such as “trainees will demonstrate their awareness by listing . . .” links thenonmeasurable quality of awareness with the observable and measurable behaviors ofdemonstration and listing. Effective instructional goals clearly describe desiredbehavior, are related to identified needs, and can be achieved through training.The presentation of clear, measurable, instructional goals can be difficult. Dick andCarey suggest that it is helpful to use the following procedure: * From the Systematic Design of Instruction, 3rd ed., by Walter Dick and Lou Carey. Copyright © 1990 by Walter Dick and Lou Carey.Reprinted by permission of HarperCollins Publishers.260 ❘❚ ■ Put the goal in writing;■ Briefly state what the trainees will be doing after the goal has been achieved;■ Sort the statements according to what best illustrates the objectives of the fuzzygoal;■ Select behavioral indicators;■ Incorporate the behavioral indicators into a statement of intent; and■ Evaluate the statement.Before an instructional goal can be stated specifically, one must identify a specificneed and the behavioral changes that must occur in order to fulfill that need. The outputof step one should be a clearly stated instructional goal.STEP TWO: CONDUCT AN INSTRUCTIONAL ANALYSISOnce instructional goals have been identified, the next step is to conduct aninstructional analysis. In this process, one must identify the subordinate skills necessaryto attain an instructional goal. According to Dick and Carey, a subordinate skill is a skillthat may not be “important in and of itself as a learning outcome,” but “must beachieved in order to learn some higher superordinate skill” (1985, p. 32). Theinstructional analysis consists of two steps: (a) classifying the goal statement and (b)analyzing the ways in which information is processed.Goal ClassificationThe first step in instructional analysis is to classify goal statements according to thetypes of learning that must take place. There are four types of learning: psychomotor,intellectual, verbalinformation, and attitudinal.■ Psychomotor learning requires the learner to perform some physical activity;■ Intellectual learning requires the learner to perform some cognitive activity;■ Verbalinformation learning requires a verbal response to a specific cue; and■ Attitudinal learning involves influencing trainees to choose to perform aparticular psychomotor, intellectual, or verbal skill under certain conditions.InformationProcessing Analysis (IPA)The second instructionalanalysis step is to list the steps a trainee should do to attain aninstructional goal. The steps should be sequential and may be psychomotor, intellectual,verbal, attitudinal, or some combination of them. The informationprocessing analysisdescribes the process of attaining a goal in a stepbystep, flowchart fashion. Through ❚❘ 261the IPA process, prerequisite (subordinate) skills that must be mastered prior toperforming an end behavior are identified. According to Dick and Carey, no less thanthree to five and not more than fifteen steps should be sequenced, as less than three willbe too vague and more than fifteen will include too much detail.The instructionalanalysis process must begin with a clearly stated instructionalgoal. The output of the instructionalanalysis process includes instructional goals and adetermination of all skills that will be needed to achieve the goal.STEP THREE: IDENTIFY ENTRY BEHAVIORS ANDCHARACTERISTICSAfter the prerequisite skills have been identified, one can begin to identify the behaviorsand characteristics that trainees must possess before they can begin to learn. Theseinitial, required behaviors and characteristics are termed entry behaviors andcharacteristics. An over or underestimation of entry behaviors and characteristics oftenwill result in a mismatch between the level of instruction and the learners’ ability tolearn. Dick and Carey caution that the identified behaviors and characteristics should bedescriptive and should not be grounded in stereotypical representations.A thorough understanding of the instructional goals, the necessary subordinateskills, and the targeted learning audience is necessary before one can identify entrybehaviors and characteristics. In turn, this step will generate output such as a descriptionof the targeted learners’ general abilities, previous experiences, expectations, andemotional characteristics.STEP FOUR: CREATE PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVESWith input from each of the previous steps, one can create performance objectives.Performance objectives, which can be behavioral, instructional, terminal, and so on,typically are narrower in scope than are instructional goals. Performance objectivesspecifically describe all the behaviors that trainees will be expected to demonstrate oncompletion of instruction. Performance objectives originate in instructional goals andare derived from the instructional analysis. Usually, one or more objectives should bewritten for each identified skill. Each objective should fulfill the following criteria:■ It describes the expected behavior;■ It describes the conditions under which the learner will be performing thebehavior; and■ It sets standards for evaluating the success of the instruction.Dick and Carey caution trainers not to become overly concerned with the wordingof instructional objectives but to remain focused on the objectives as a declaration ofinstructional intent.262 ❘❚ STEP FIVE: DEVELOP CRITERIONREFERENCED TEST ITEMSThe development of criterionreferenced test items and testing materials is a criticalcomponent of the instructionaldesign model. Criterionreferenced test items andmaterials measure both the learner’s progress and the instruction’s effectiveness. Toserve both purposes, test items must correspond with and measure directly theperformance objectives. Hence, the terms objectivereferenced and performancereferenced apply as well. Four types of criterionreferenced measurements are useful:■ EntryBehavior Tests. The items for entrybehavior tests are based on theobjectives for the subordinate skills that trainees must possess prior to beginningthe training.■ Pretests. Pretest items measure prior knowledge of skills that will be taughtduring the training course.■ Embedded Tests. Embeddedtest items almost always measure intellectual skills.Implanted within instructional content and usually administered withoutfeedback, embeddedtest items function as practice questions to allow trainers tojudge whether or not trainees understand the material and whether they areprogressing as anticipated.■ Posttests. Posttest items should assess all performance objectives, with particularemphasis on instructional goals. Posttests may or may not measure subordinateskills. Administered after the training session, posttests evaluate trainees’progress, determine the effectiveness of the training, and pinpoint areas in whichthe effectiveness of the instruction has suffered.The input needed to develop criterionreferenced test items are instructional goalsand a list of performance objectives established through instructional analysis. Theoutput is a series of fair and equitable test items that measure performance for eachbehavioral objective. The items become a resource input to be used in developing thespecific tests that are indicated when the instructional strategy is formulated.STEP SIX: DEVELOP AN INSTRUCTIONAL STRATEGYAn instructional strategy determines the structure of the information presented totrainees and describes the instructional materials and procedures that will be used toproduce a particular learning outcome. The five essential ingredients of an instructionalstrategy are as follows:1. Preinstructional activities. Preinstructional activities take place prior to thebeginning of instruction and are designed to motivate and “hook” learners intothe subject matter. Demonstrations of what is to be learned, informationregarding prerequisite skills, pretests, and so on are included in this category.Preinstructional activities prepare trainees for the session to follow, provide ❚❘ 263information on the variability of entry behaviors, and help the trainer todetermine whether trainee variability is likely to affect trainees’ ability to learn.2. Information presentation. An instructional strategy must specify whatinformation, principles, rules, and concepts need to be presented to trainees; howmuch material should be presented at one time; and in what order the materialshould be presented. Dick and Carey suggest that instructors should avoidpresenting too much information in one chunk. One can avoid the error ofoverpresenting by paying careful attention to the learners’ ages, the type oflearning required, and the degree to which learning tasks can be varied.3. Student participation. Dick and Carey describe practice and feedback as“powerful components” of the learning process. Students should be permitted topractice what is being required of them and should receive feedback on theirperformance. The degree to which learners are permitted to practice and toreceive feedback will influence learning and retention.4. Testing. Criterionreferenced test items have been developed for entry behavior,pretests, embedded tests, and posttests. The fourth ingredient of an instructionalstrategy, then, is to decide what kinds of test items will best facilitate theattainment of instructional goals. Testing strategies vary from situation tosituation, but major strategy decisions most often will relate to the following:■ Will entry behavior be measured and, if so, how will the test items beadministered?■ Will preexisting skills and knowledge be measured and, if so, what skills willbe measured and when will pretests be administered?■ Will embeddedtest items be used and, if so, at what point in the trainingsession will they be used and what skills will they test?■ When and how will posttests be administered?■ What process and procedure, if any, will be used to evaluate instructionalcontent and methods?5. Followthrough activities. Dick and Carey recommend planning for remedialtraining if certain participants seem to need it as the training progresses.Likewise, followthrough activities can enhance the learning process as well asfacilitate the transfer of learning into reallife situations.A completed instructional strategy starts with instructional goals and descriptions ofthe targeted population, instructional analysis, performance objectives, and criterionreferenced test items and produces predictions of which instructional and testingmaterials will be needed, time estimates, and an order of presentation.264 ❘❚ STEP SEVEN: DEVELOP AND SELECT INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSOnce an instructional strategy has been developed, one must begin to develop and selectinstructional materials. First, one must identify the instructional materials that areavailable and decide whether the existing materials are adequate or whether they can beadapted to fit instructional goals and objectives. If appropriate materials are notavailable, they must be developed. Dick and Carey state that a completed instructionalpackage consists of manuals for students and instructors, other instructional materials,and testing materials.With instructional goals, instructional analysis, performance objectives, sample testitems and instructional strategy as inputs, the outcome of this phase of instructionaldesign is a draft set of instructional materials, tests, and students’ and instructors’manuals.STEP EIGHT: DESIGN AND CONDUCT A FORMATIVE EVALUATIONAll steps to this point have culminated in an untested instructional strategy and a set ofinstructional materials that most likely will present some problems. A formativeevaluation is the process of gathering information during instructional development inorder to make revisions, to test assumptions, and to improve the effectiveness of theinstruction. It is a formalized feedback mechanism to improve the quality of instruction.A formative evaluation typically begins with a review of the instructional materialsby subjectmatter experts—knowledgeable and experienced specialists who are familiarwith the targeted learners and who have not been directly involved with theinstructionaldevelopment project. After the instructional materials have been reviewed,three fundamental steps remain.1. OnetoOne Evaluation. The designer obtains information from people in thetargeted trainee group.2. SmallGroup Evaluation. On its own, a group of eight to twenty studentsevaluates revisions resulting from the onetoone evaluations and identifies anyremaining problems with the training. The group should be as representative ofthe targeted trainee population as possible.3. Field Trial. The purpose of a field trial (also known as a pilot study) is to testinstructional materials and procedures in an actual training setting. Dick andCarey recommend that a representative group of at least thirty people participatein the field trial. ❚❘ 265STEP NINE: REVISE THE INSTRUCTIONFormative evaluation produces feedback, which leads to the revision of nearly every partof the instructional process. The training plan is revised to improve its quality and tostrengthen its effectiveness in meeting instructional goals and objectives.STEP TEN: DESIGN AND CONDUCT A SUMMATIVE EVALUATIONParadoxically, the goals of summative evaluation have little to do with the instructionaldesign. Summative evaluation is not an indispensable part of the design processesbecause (a) it is not within the feedback loop and (b) it takes place after instruction hasbeen designed, revised, and evaluated. Nevertheless, summative evaluation is importantfor evaluating the overall worth and value of a training session. In other words,summative evaluation permits others to determine whether the instruction has beeneffective.Summative evaluations often are comparable to controlledresearch processes inwhich independent evaluators analyze all aspects of the instruction. For example,instructional materials can be analyzed for content coverage; assessment materials canbe analyzed in terms of psychometric quality; and the relationships betweeninstructional goals and performance objectives can be examined. According to Dick andCarey, a summative evaluation often is set forth in a technical report that includes thefollowing elements:■ purpose of the evaluation;■ materials evaluated;■ procedures used;■ names of participants;■ results; and■ recommendations and conclusions.REFERENCEDick, W., & Carey, W. (1985). The systematic design of instruction (2nd ed.). Glenview, IL: Scott, Foresman.266 ❘❚ SystemsApproach Model for Instructional Design From the Systematic Design of Instruction, 3rd ed., by Walter Dick and Lou Carey. Copyright © 1990 by Walter Dick and Lou Carey.Reprinted by permission of HarperCollins Publishers. ❚❘ 267❚❘ THEORIES OF LEARNINGMost theories of learning are based on the assumption that people learn as aconsequence of their actions—a behaviorist approach (DuBrin, 1984). Many trainingprograms are based on this view, so they include such things as experience, feedback,and positive reinforcement.CLASSICAL CONDITIONINGClassical conditioning is the stimulusresponse theory of learning originated by Pavlov(out of print) in the late 1890s. A link is established between a conditioned stimulus (thedog receives food) and an unconditioned stimulus (the dog hears the man coming withthe food), and the response to the former (the dog salivates) transfers to the latter also.This helps to explain how people acquire uncomplicated habits and reflexes (e.g.,ducking when one hears a bee buzzing, using pot holders to handle a hot pan).OPERANT CONDITIONINGB.F. Skinner (1965, another out of print) is the name most associated with this theory ofbehaviorism and positive reinforcement. In this type of learning, the individual engagesin a behavior, and the behavior is discouraged by negative results or feedback or it isencouraged (reinforced) by positive results or feedback. Behavior that leads to positivereinforcement or reward tends to be repeated. This is the “trying it out” method oflearning. The feedback can be from a person (mother says “good”) or it can be from theenvironment (turning too fast causes one to fall off the skateboard).In children, learning most often is from spontaneous behavior. In more matureindividuals, learning also may be a conscious attempt to try a new behavior or learn askill.Negative Reinforcement and Punishment“Negative reinforcement” means that behavior also tends to be repeated when it leads toa cessation of discomfort or relief from a negative stimulus. Conversely, one tends not torepeat a behavior that leads to “punishment” or negative consequences. For example,picking up a hot dish with one’s bare hands and being burned is punishment; one is notlikely to repeat that behavior often. Running one’s burned hands under cold waterdiminishes the pain; negative reinforcement makes it likely that this technique will betried again the next time one is burned. Subsequently using potholders to lift the hot dishleads to positive reinforcement; the objective of moving the dish without pain is268 ❘❚ accomplished. The person has learned both spontaneously and by deliberately trying thetechnique of using potholders.Behaviorism also indicates that the threat of punishment can be sufficient toforestall the repetition of a behavior, if the doer believes that the punishment actuallywill occur.SOCIALLEARNING THEORYSociallearning theory, formulated by Albert Bandura (1971), is a cognitive andbehavioral theory of learning. It differentiates between acquisition of knowledge orskills and performance. Sociallearning theory emphasizes that people typically acquirethe ability to perform a certain skill by observing some model. Models may bebehavioral, pictorial, or verbal. The process of learning from a model (acquisition) iscognitive; it takes place by means of mental coding and organization. It occurs beforelearners actually demonstrate the ability to perform the skill (Kinlaw, 1989). A personoften “learns” a skill and rehearses its performance mentally before actually having theopportunity to perform it. Sociallearning theory also emphasizes that behavior orperformance is part of the learning process and that performance, coupled with feedbackand reinforcement, strengthens skill development.Bandura identified three subprocesses of observational learning:■ Attention relates to how well the learners attend to what is being presented,whether they perceive accurately what is being modeled, and whether they selectfrom the model the most relevant attributes. Attention is affected by thedistinctiveness or perceptual clarity of what is modeled, the complexity of themodel, the learner’s perceptions of the value of what is modeled, the learner’sperceptual (mind) set, and the learner’s past reinforcement patterns.■ Retention deals with an element in observational learning that is ignored intheories of imitation (such as behaviorism and other reinforcement theories).Research has shown that when learners acquire a modeled response withoutperforming it as modeled, they must be retaining the modeled response in somemental or symbolic form. The process of retention includes symbolic coding,cognitive organization, symbolic rehearsal, and motor rehearsal.■ Reproduction is the performance of a modeled pattern. It includes the elementsof physical capabilities, availability of component responses, selfobservation,and accuracy of feedback. Transition through this subprocess depends largely onthe availability of the component responses required to reproduce the model.Learning to reproduce a complex, modeled interaction requires that each of theconstituent skills in the interaction be modeled for the learners and performed bythem before they go on to the more complex behaviors required in the completeinteraction. ❚❘ 269■ Motivation is the incentive for continuing a learned behavior. Obviously, peopledo not demonstrate every learned behavior. People are motivated to continue abehavior only if they believe that they will benefit from it. Their perceptions ofwhether the behavior will benefit or hinder them are formed from theirobservations of how effective the behavior seems to be for others. From theirobservations of others and from personal experience, people form criteria ofacceptable and nonacceptable behavior. These criteria are then used to evaluateand to accept or reject new behaviors.Modeling and ShapingThe acquisition of complicated skills requires much more than a simple stimulusresponse relationship. A series of stimulusresponse behaviors must be learned, and therelationships between them must be understood so that they can be combined into afunctional pattern. Modeling (imitating) and shaping (learning component skills) are twoeffective ways to learn complicated skills. Both are based on Bandura’s sociallearningtheory. They are ways of teaching that are not didactic.Imitation occurs when one performs a behavior that one has observed anotherperson performing. Children learn in this way by mimicking adults. Unconscious andconscious imitation are ways of learning from others. The concept of behavioralmodeling as a learning technique is based on principles of imitation, behavioralrehearsal (practice), reinforcement/reward, and transfer (Robinson, 1982). To workeffectively, it requires imitation of a specific set of steps in a defined situation; repeated,guided practice in performing the desired behaviors; feedback on performance; andreinforcement for demonstration and application of correct behaviors.Shaping is the learning of a series of individual skills that are components of acomplicated skill, with reinforcement at each stage to encourage the use of the new skilland provide forward momentum. Positive reinforcement may be in the form of praise,reward, new learning, increased responsibility, or the like. Negative reinforcement alsomay occur, as the learner makes fewer mistakes or incurs fewer injuries. Increasedpersonal pride and confidence on the part of the learner also contribute to the learningprocess.Although modeling and shaping are forms of operant conditioning, something moremay occur as the learner gains insights into the relationships between learned patterns.Cognitive learning can be a valuable supplement in this process.COGNITIVE LEARNINGThe cognitive approach maintains that most learning is more complex than merely aresponse to a stimulus. Because humans think while they are learning, a variety offactors come into play during the learning process. Varying degrees of informationprocessing is done in the brains of most learners during the learning process. An270 ❘❚ individual’s particular levels of reasoning and analytical skills, memory, physicalaptitudes, etc., will influence how easily he or she learns a particular skill or acquiresnew knowledge. Other factors include the learner’s personality, motivation to learn, pastexperiences, insights, and so on.People are learning continually, although not always by conscious or formal means.They learn through experience and by imitation; they learn by reading or hearingsomething and relating it to what they already know; and they learn by “leaps of logic.”REFERENCESBandura, A. (1971). Psychological modeling. Chicago, IL: Aldine.DuBrin, A.J. (1984). Foundations of organizational behavior: An applied perspective. Englewood Cliffs, NJ:PrenticeHall.Kinlaw, D.C. (1989). Trainer’s guide to accompany coaching for commitment. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.Pavlov, I. (out of print). Experimental psychology.Robinson, J.C. (1982). Developing managers through behavior modeling. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Skinner, B.F. (1965). Science and human behavior. NY: Free Press.Skinner, B.F. (out of print). Contingencies of reinforcement: A theoretical analysis. ❚❘ 271Classical ConditioningStimulusResponse: Dog salivates when receivingfood. Man rings bell when dog is fed. Dog begins tosalivate when bell is rung.Operant Conditioning1. Encouragement to repeat behavior:a. Positive Reinforcement: reward is received whenbehavior is performedb. Negative Reinforcement: unpleasant stimulus isremoved when behavior is performed2. Discouragement of behavior:a. Punishment (unpleasant feedback or stimulus)b. Threat of punishmentSocial Learning TheoryAcquisition (attention and retention) and performance(reproduction)Modeling: Imitation of behavior seen, with practiceand reinforcementShaping: Learning of linked, component skills, withreinforcement for performanceTheories of Learning272 ❘❚ ❚❘ TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENTMost HRD professionals agree that an assessment of organizational needs is crucial tothe development of effective training programs. Needs assessment is the term mostcommonly used to describe the assortment of informationgathering activitiesundertaken before the design and implementation of a training session. Also known asneeds analysis, frontend analysis, discrepancy analysis, and diagnosis, needsassessment is the fundamental tool that organizations and HRD professionals use todiscover where training is needed, what types of training should be conducted, andwhich employees are in need of training (Ostroff & Ford, 1989).THE PURPOSE OF NEEDS ASSESSMENTTraining exists in order to prepare employees to accomplish an organization’s goals. Ifemployees are to be effective, training systems must be aligned with and driven byorganizational needs. That is, training activities are meaningless unless they benefit theorganization by fulfilling needs (Goldstein, 1974). Thus, the purpose of needsassessment is to gather information and to identify training needs in order to design andimplement training programs that improve the organization’s performance andeffectiveness.Romiszowski (1988) and Kaufman (1979) suggest that needs assessment is first andforemost a problemsolving process targeted toward resolving organizational problems.Similarly, Rossett (1990) says that needs assessment is the preferred tool for gatheringinformation in two primary areas of organizational problems: the introduction of newsystems and technology and inadequate performance. According to Rossett, needsassessment attempts to resolve these two problem areas by answering questions aboutthe desired future situation, the current situation, possible causes of the problems, thefeelings of the people involved, and potential solutions.■ The desired future situation is a vision of what outcomes the training willproduce. The vision emphasizes desired results and the knowledge, skills, andattitudes necessary for trainees to perform at the hopedfor level. For example, ifthe organization is planning to introduce a new computer system, the vision ofthe desired future situation would include a definition of optimal performanceand the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary to produce optimalperformance.■ The current situation is a description of the here and now. The emphasis is ontoday’s status quo—current performance levels, knowledge, skills, and attitudes.When desired situations are visualized and actual situations are described, the ❚❘ 273discrepancies between vision and reality become evident; these represent theorganization’s training needs. Rossett cautions, however, that when newtechnology or new systems are introduced, there will not yet be actualperformance levels with which to compare, and the desired situation, in this case,represents the training needs.■ Possible causes of any problems also must be examined when there aredifferences between the desired and the actual. Rossett lists six factors thatcontribute to performance problems:1. Lack of adequate knowledge, skills, or ability to perform well;2. An environment that does not support the desired level of performance;3. Nonexistent or unclear performance expectations;4. Lack of incentives for high performance;5. A sense that the desired performance is not valued; and6. Lack of selfconfidence.Information from as many different sources as possible about the causes of poorperformance can help to focus training designs on fixing the causes rather thanjust treating the symptoms.■ Feelings of the people involved must be considered before undertaking training.The purpose of organizational training is to modify employee behavior; thus,training implies a change that will affect people’s lives. The risks associated withchange (for instance, resistance to change and lack of commitment) often can beminimized by obtaining information about people’s feelings about the proposedtraining and the accompanying changes. It is important to ask the following typesof questions: whether the identified problems are perceived as problems by thosewho are being required to change; whether training is perceived as a solution;whether potential trainees are confident in their ability to perform at differentlevels; whether trainees are motivated to perform differently; and whether or notthere are political issues associated with the training.■ Possible solutions are formulated during the final phase of a needs assessment.The goal is to reduce the discrepancy between “what is” and “what ought to be”in a way that maximizes the organizational benefit. Different types of problemsoften require different types of interventions. The emphasis throughout this finalphase is on finding the optimal mix of potential solutions in order to completelyeliminate or to significantly reduce the problem.LEVEL OF ANALYSISInformation regarding organizational needs can be gathered at three separate yetinterrelated levels: organization, task, and people (McGehee & Thayer, 1961). The274 ❘❚ Venn diagram pictured in the figure below illustrates the relationship between the threelevels.■ Organizational analysis emphasizes training needs within the overallorganization. Information is gathered regarding organizational goals, values, andavailable resources to determine whether training would help the organization toreach its goals. Organizational assessment defines the desired training outcomesat the macro level, identifies if and where the training is needed, and introduces afoundation for future evaluation. The emphasis is on strategic needs.■ Task (operational) analysis examines specific onthejob tasks and the conditionsin which the tasks are performed. Information is collected regarding taskactivities, the context in which the task is performed, and the knowledge, skills,abilities, and attitudes necessary for effective performance. The emphasis is onjob content and context.■ People analysis focuses on the identification of employees within theorganization who need training and of the types of training needed. Information iscollected regarding the employees’ knowledge, skills, abilities, attitudes, andperformance, which then is compared to a predetermined standard ofperformance. People analysis emphasizes what is needed for the employee(s) tofunction at higher levels.A comprehensive needs analysis by its very nature necessitates interacting with andincluding other people. Inclusion—especially of stakeholders and other influentialorganizational members—tends to increase the commitment to and ownership oftraining processes. Without the ownership, commitment, and support of influentialpeople, training processes probably will be unable to benefit the organization to theirfull potential.THE FIVE STEPS OF NEEDS ANALYSISRossett (1990) indicates that there is not a standardized formula for conducting needsanalyses. Still, the needsanalysis process generally comprises five steps. ❚❘ 2751. Select Sources of Information. Needs analysis essentially is an informationgathering process. Accordingly, the first step in a needs analysis is to choosesources of information. Potential sources of useful information are infinite; theseshould be moderated by the level of analysis and limited to those stakeholderswho will be affected by the changes and who can contribute pertinentinformation.2. Determine the Stages of Analysis. A single source of information or mechanismfor gathering information usually cannot furnish all the data necessary to obtain aclear picture of the problem or situation being assessed. Continuedcommunication with various sources and the incorporation of several needsassessment tools will assure more complete and useful data. The number of stagesneeded will vary, depending on how much information is needed and how muchtime and money has been allocated to the project.3. Select and Administer NeedsAssessment Tools. Each stage of needs analysisutilizes one of five fundamental tools:■ observations,■ interviews,■ surveys,■ focus groups, and■ documents.The determination of which tool is most appropriate is based on the focus of thedata being gathered.4. Create Items or Questions for Use in Gathering Information. One of the mostdifficult elements of needs analysis is defining what items and questions to use inorder to obtain useful and valid information. For Rossett, the items and questionsshould be designed to obtain information regarding■ The general problem or situation;■ The details of the problem or situation;■ Information that job incumbents already have;■ Employees’ feelings about the problem or new system;■ Causes of performance problems; and■ Possible solutions.5. Consider the CriticalIncident Technique. Criticalincident analysis is a meansof narrowing the general to the specific when examining performance problems.It is a method of inquiry that gathers information or “stories” from successfulincumbents by questioning them about their experiences in various situations. The276 ❘❚ criticalincident technique is especially useful when determining optimal andactual performance and knowledge. For Rossett (1990), the following questionsare representative of those asked during a criticalincident analysis.■ Think about the most difficult situation you have had to handle on the job.What happened and what did you do?■ What is your most successful approach to . . .?■ Describe the best supervisor you ever had.■ What did you do that helped you to complete your last assignment on time?IMPLICATIONSOrganizations often are “all talk, no action” in their support of needs analysis. Needsanalysis often is conducted within a highly political environment in which there may beintense competition for organizational resources. To complicate matters, needs analysiscan reveal problems that are different from the problems that management hadpredicted. Nevertheless, an effective needs analysis must be strongly supported whetherit produces popular or unpopular recommendations. That support is most likely to beobtained only when the needs analysis makes use of thorough and systematic contactwith people and information.REFERENCESGoldstein, I.I. (1974). Training: Program development and evaluation. Monterey, CA: Brooks/Cole.Kaufman, R. (1979). Identifying and solving problems. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.McGehee, W., & Thayer, P.W. (1961). Training in business and industry. New York: John Wiley.Ostroff, C., & Ford, J.K. (1989). Assessing training needs: Critical levels of analysis. In I.I. Goldstein (Ed.),Training and development in organizations. San Francisco: JosseyBass.Romiszowski, A.J. (1981). Designing instructional systems. New York: Nichols.SOURCERossett, A. (1990). Needs assessment: Forerunner to successful HRD programs. In J.W. Pfeiffer (Ed.), The 1990annual: Developing human resources. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 277❚❘ TRAINING OBJECTIVESOnce a trainingneeds assessment has been completed, the data from it can be analyzedin order to consider what is to be the focus of the proposed training and its aims ordesired outcomes—the specific ways in which people should change, develop, orbehave. The following points should be considered; each will affect the training design(Cooper & Harrison, 1976):Predetermined/Emergent Aims■ Who should determine the learning objectives (the facilitator, the participants, orboth)?■ To what extent can learning aims be determined prior to the training experience?■ What is the possibility of additional aims emerging during the training event?■ To what extent might the facilitators impose, consciously or otherwise, someaims because of their own values and by setting norms?Extent of Objectives■ To what extent are training aims conceptual (cognitive) or emotional (usuallypersonal)? This will affect the nature of the design, the materials needed, and thetype of facilitation required.■ Are the training objectives remedial (focused on participants’ weaknesses,problems, or lacks) or developmental (to build participants’ strengths)? Theextent to which activities are focused in either direction should be considered, aswell as the implications of this focus.■ How long is the group learning intended to have an effect (days, months, years)?What reinforcement will be available to the participants to aid in the transitionand refreezing processes?Experimental/Experiential AimsThe choice between these aims has implications for the training design (e.g., the use ofobservers, data collection, process reviews) and for the facilitator’s learning theory ormodels. Points to consider include:278 ❘❚ ■ The extent to which the activity will be a joint learning experiment, in which thefacilitator has a special responsibility (e.g., for helping the group to examine datain reviewing its work).■ The extent to which the facilitator allows participants to experience the activitywithout heavily processing it.IDENTIFYING THE TRAINING OBJECTIVETo pinpoint the training objective, one can ask “What is expected to change as a resultof this module?” In general, the training objective will fall into one of three broadcategories:■ Cognitive: The acquisition of knowledge/understanding ofconcepts/memorization of content;■ Psychomotor: The practice and acquisition of new skills/new behaviors; and■ Affective: The development of awareness/exploration of attitudes/realization ofpreferences.It is important to be clear about which of these areas will be the focus of thetraining. If participants are to be presented with a lecture on a particular topic, thetraining is in the cognitive realm (knowledge/concepts), and the objective would be totell the participants about the topic or issue or to acquaint them with its major points.The objective is not to develop their skills in dealing with it or to change their attitudesabout it (neither can be done with a lecture). Too often, training objectives are worded as“To change the participants’ attitudes about . . .” when all that happens is a lecture onwhy they should or should not do something. (It would at least be more effective to statewhat would happen if they did or did not behave in a certain way.) Although the lattermay bring about some change in people’s behavior in certain situations (because of theunderstanding of the consequences), it is very unlikely to change their attitudes oropinions.Knowledge and concepts can be communicated through training modules such asreading, lectures, and discussions. Psychomotor skills can be imparted only through“handson” (literally or figuratively) practice such as that provided by role playing, casestudies, and simulations. Affective learning (e.g., awareness training or exploration anddiscovery of personal attitudes) requires the participation of the trainees. Theircontent—their thoughts, reactions, insights, and feelings—are a great deal of the focusof this type of training experience. Obtaining this information and working with itrequires more facilitating skills than presenting skills. The training technologies that canbe used in this realm are role plays, instruments, structured experiences, and intensivesmall groups.Note that we stated the objective of this type of training as the awareness,discovery, or exploration of attitudes. Even with time to experience something and ❚❘ 279discuss it in a training group, participants are likely to need time to reflect (and perhapsto experience the effects of changed behaviors) before their attitudes actually change. AsLeon Festinger’s (1957, 1964) research in cognitive dissonance shows, if you canchange the behavior, the attitudes are more likely to follow. It does not seem to work aswell the other way around.WORDING IT REALISTICALLYThe training objective should communicate the following:1. What the facilitator intends to do, or2. The expected outcome or benefit to the participant.It is important in framing the training objective to be clear about what you will doand what you reasonably can expect to happen as a result of the training. It is folly topromise that training will “improve productivity in the organization” or “change thetrainees’ attitudes.” One of these may be what you hope to achieve, but neither can beguaranteed or measured. Rule number one is: Do not promise more than you can deliver.This may require that the client be educated about the reality of training and the otherfactors that can affect the outcome of training.To be most realistic, a statement of training objectives would begin “It is expectedthat” (e.g., trainees will learn how to thread a needle as a result of this program). If thisis not acceptable in one’s particular situation, one still should resist making a statementsuch as “The trainee will be able to thread a needle as a result of the program.” Trainingcannot control for other factors in the organization, the trainees’ jobs and otherenvironments, or the individuals themselves. All participants may not be able to attendall the training sessions because of other job pressures. People’s skill levels are factorsover which the trainer has no control. Also, although training can impact a person’scomprehension and even ability, the trainer has little control over the person’swillingness to use the new learning once the individual leaves the training setting. That,in fact, is the manager’s responsibility. Too often, the people who are “ordering” thetraining expect trainers to assume this responsibility and to guarantee a “perfect”outcome.In writing training objectives, therefore, it is wise to stick to what you will do andwhat you expect to happen. Suggested alternatives are: “The trainer will demonstrateand explain how to thread a needle, and the trainees will practice this skill” or “Thetrainees will have the opportunity to learn how to thread a needle” or “The trainees willbe presented with the theory of and practice in threading a needle.” Other objectives canbe “to explore,” “to engage in,” and so on. If the training is mandatory skills training,the objective can include an “or else” statement, e.g., “The trainees will learn how tothread a needle or they will not be certified” (will have to retake the training, will haveto be retested, etc.).280 ❘❚ REFERENCESCooper, C.L., & Harrison, K. (1976). Designing and facilitating experiential group activities: Variables and issues.In J.W. Pfeiffer & J.E. Jones (Eds.), The 1976 annual handbook for group facilitators. San Diego, CA:Pfeiffer & Company.Festinger, L. (1957). A theory of cognitive dissonance. Palo Alto, CA: Stanford University Press.Festinger, L. (1964). Conflict, decision, and dissonance. Palo Alto, CA: Stanford University Press.SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Design skills in human resource development (UATT Series, Vol. 2). SanDiego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 281❚❘ TRAINING STYLESDeciding what approach to take in helping people to learn can be difficult, particularlywhen one consults the “how to” literature on the subject. The classic debate betweenbehaviorists (emphasizing control, shaping, prompting, reinforcing, token economy) andhumanists (advocating freedom, spontaneity, studentcentering, individuality, feelings)is just one example of basic differences. Even if one is clear about which of thesepsychological orientations one favors, there are numerous ways in which one can applythem, numerous approaches and techniques from which one can choose. Or can onereally choose? Most trainers recognize that different adults prefer to learn in differentways, and that people in a training program will “get it” at different points. What theymay not realize is that trainers also have preferred teaching or training styles, and theymay tend to use these even when they do not match the trainees’ learning styles. Thismeans that the training may not be as effective as it could be. Accordingly, rather thanusing a particular training style, a trainer can increase his or her effectiveness bydeveloping a variety of styles in order to complement different trainees and trainingobjectives.TYPES OF TRAINING STYLESAdelson (1961) describes teachers as either shamans, who keep the focus on themselves;priests, who focus on the discipline and see themselves as a representative of it; ormystic healers, who focus on the learners.A more useful taxonomy developed by Mann and his colleagues (1970) describesindividual teachers as various combinations of six primary styles. The expert defines therole primarily as giving information; the formal authority defines it as directing andcontrolling; the socializing agent as preparing new members of a profession ordiscipline; the facilitator as enabling learners to develop in ways that they select; the egoideal as being an inspiring model; and the person as being an interested and caring colearner.The Trainer Type InventoryWheeler and Marshall (1986) developed an instrument called the Trainer Type Inventory(TTI), based on Kolb’s (1976) work on learningstyle preferences. Wheeler and Marshallassert that trainers can be classified as listeners, directors, interpreters, and coaches.Each style is differentiated by the way in which content is presented and the nature ofthe relationship between trainer and trainee. The following are the primarycharacteristics for each training style:282 ❘❚ 1. Listeners tend to create affective learning environments in which learners areencouraged to express their personal needs openly. The training focus is on thehere and now, and listeners characteristically are highly aware of individualgroup members. Listeners tend to read nonverbal behavior well, show a greatdeal of empathy, and assure that all group members are heard. Listeners arecomfortable with all types of expression (words, gestures, hugs, music, etc.),easily expose their own emotions, and expect learners to be selfdirected andautonomous. In training situations, trainers who prefer a listening style appearrelaxed and unhurried and “go with the flow,” not appearing to worry about thetraining.2. Directors tend to create perceptual learning environments in which theparticipation of learners is limited and controlled by the trainer. The trainingfocus is on the how and why. Directors characteristically take charge and becomethe final judge of what is learned. Directors tend to be well organized, enter thetraining situation with detailed training guidelines, and have welldevelopedcontingence plans. They most often stick to an announced agenda, presentinginformation through examples that are tied to a lecture format. In trainingsituations, trainers who prefer a director style appear selfconfident and tend toevaluate the learning based on objective criteria.3. Interpreters tend to create symbolic learning environments in which learners arerequired to memorize and master terms, rules, and concepts. The training focus ison the there and then, and interpreters characteristically provide informationbased on objective data. Interpreters tend to integrate theory and events bymaking connections between past and present events. Through the use of casestudies, lectures, and readings, they present wellconstructed interpretations andencourage generalization and independent thought. In training situations, trainerswho prefer an interpreter style want trainees to leave with a thorough knowledgeand understanding of the facts and relevant terminology. They observe and tendto separate themselves from trainees, share ideas but not feelings, and listen forthe intellectual rather than the emotional content.4. Coaches tend to create behavioral learning environments in which trainees areencouraged to participate actively, learn, and evaluate their own progress. Thetraining focus is on the what and how. Coaches characteristically encouragetrainees to actively experiment with practical application. Coaches tend to drawon the strengths of the group and utilize trainees as resources. They clearly are incharge and they make use of activities, problems, and projects based on real life.In training situations, trainers who prefer a coaching style help trainees toverbalize what they already know and act as a facilitators to make the learningexperience more comfortable and meaningful.Wheeler and Marshall’s instrument is useful in helping trainers to identify theirtypical training styles. Further value is found when the respondents share insights, ❚❘ 283training techniques, and advice with other trainers who want to build skills in areasoutside their current repertoires or comfort ranges.TRAINERTRAINEE FITMost trainers agree that different adults have different preferred styles of learning,although as yet there has been little agreement about how these individual learningstyles can be classified. For example, Jacobs and Fuhrmann (1984) classify people aseither independent, dependent, or collaborative learners; Murrell (1987) suggestsclassification based along cognitiveaffective and concreteabstract dimensions; andKolb (1976) and Wheeler and Marshall (1986) suggest that people learn by experience,observation, conceptualization, or experimentation.As described above and summarized in the table “TrainerTrainee Styles,” there arenoticeable differences in the ways in which trainers prefer to train. Thus, based on theirpersonal styles, trainers tend to create learning situations in which they feel comfortableand effective. For example, listeners are comfortable in and tend to create affectivelearning atmospheres; directors are comfortable in and tend to create perceptualatmospheres; interpreters are comfortable in and tend to create symbolic atmospheres;and coaches are comfortable in and tend to create behavioral learning atmospheres.Similarly, there are differences in the learning modes that trainees are comfortablewith. Trainees tend to feel more comfortable with and learn better in trainingatmospheres that fit with their personal styles of learning. For example, trainees wholearn through experience feel comfortable in learning atmospheres that focus on the hereand now and encourage free expression of personal needs; trainees who learn throughobservation are most comfortable in learning atmospheres that focus on the how andwhy and in which participation is controlled; trainees with conceptual orientations preferlearning atmospheres that focus on the objective data of there and then; and trainees wholearn through experimentation are most comfortable in learning atmospheres that focuson the what and how through active participation.The listener trains the concrete experiencer most effectively and is very comfortablein the activity and publishing steps of the experiential learning cycle. The directorobtains the best results from the reflective observer and usually is very comfortableduring step 3, processing (particularly in helping trainees to make the transition from“How do I feel about this?” to “Now what?”). The interpreter trains in the style favoredby the abstract conceptualizer (step 4, generalizing), and the coach trains in the stylefavored by the active experimenter (step 5, applying).The Training Style InventoryBrostrom (1979) developed the Training Style Inventory to help trainers to learn abouttheir personal impact on others in the learning setting and to form decisions about theuse of various methods and techniques. The completion items correspond to four majorinstructional orientations: the behaviorist, structuralist, functionalist, and humanistapproaches. (See figure at the end of this article)284 ❘❚ These categories present some definite contrasts in style and suggest someimplications for training, as shown in the table that follows:Behaviorist StructuralistOrientationto TeachingLearningNew behavior can be causedand “shaped” with welldesigned structures aroundthe learner.The mind is like a computer;the teacher is theprogrammer.BasicAssumptionsTraining designers select thedesired end behavior andproceed to engineer areinforcement schedule thatsystematically encourageslearners’ progress towardthose goals. Imaginative newmachinery has made learningfun and thinking unnecessary.Learners often control thespeed.Content properly organizedand fed bitbybit to learnerswill be retained in memory.Criterion tests will verify theeffectiveness of teaching. Theteacher “keeps peopleawake” while simultaneouslyentering data—a much enviedskill.Key Words and Processing ■ Stimulusresponse ■ practice ■ shaping ■ prompting ■ behavior modification■ pinpointing ■ habit formation ■ reward and punishment■ teaching ■ machines ■ environmental design■ successive approximation■ sensitizing ■ extinction ■ token economy ■ mastery■ task analysis ■ lessonplanning ■ informationmapping ■ chaining ■ sequencing ■ memory ■ audiovisual media■ presentation techniques■ standards ■ association ■ evaluation ■ measuringinstruments ■ objectives ■ recitation.Interpersonal Style Supportive emphasis oncontrolling and predicting thelearner and learningoutcomes—cooperative,stimulusresponse mentalitiesare valued. Process isproduct centered.Directive: planning,organization, presentation,and evaluation are featured.Process is teacher centered.Strengths “The Doctor”: clear, precise,and deliberate; low risk;careful preparation; attentive;complete security forlearners; a trust builder;everything “arranged”;protective; patient; in control“The Expert”: informative;thorough; certain; systematic;stimulating; good audiovisualtechniques; well rehearsed;strong leader; powerful;expressive; dramatic;entertainingLimitations “The Manipulator”: fostersdependence; overprotective;controlling; manipulative “fortheir own good”; sugarcoating; hypocritical agreeing;deceptive assuring; withholdsdata“The Elitist”: preoccupied withmeans, image, or structurerather than results; ignoresaffective variables; inflexible(must follow lesson plan);dichotomous (black or white)thinking; superior.Trainer Style Contrasts ❚❘ 285Functionalist HumanistOrientationto TeachingLearningPeople learn best by doing,and they will do best whatthey want to do. People willlearn what is practical.Learning is a selfdirecteddiscovery. People are naturaland unfold (like a flower) ifothers do not inhibit theprocess.BasicAssumptionsThe learner must be willing(or motivated) by the processor the product, otherwise it isuseless to try teaching.Performance “on the job” isthe true test. Opportunity,selfdirection, thinking,achieving results, andrecognition are important.“Anything that can be taughtto another is relativelyinconsequential” (Rogers).Significant learning leads toinsight and understanding ofself and others. Being a betterhuman being is considered avalid learning goal. Can be avery inefficient, timeconsuming process.Key Words and Processing ■ problem solving ■ simulation■ “handson” ■ reasoning ■ learner involvement ■ realitybased ■ consequences■ achievement ■ failure■ confidence ■ motivation■ thinking ■ competence ■ discipline ■ recognition■ feedback ■ working■ freedom ■ individuality■ ambiguity ■ uncertainty ■ awareness ■ spontaneity■ mutuality ■ equality■ openness ■ interaction■ experiential learning■ congruence ■ authenticity ■ listening ■ cooperation■ feelingsInterpersonal Style Assertive: a problemfocused,conditional, confrontationalclimate—striving, stretching,achieving. Process is taskoriented and learner centeredReflective: authenticity,equality, and acceptancemark relationship. Process isrelationship centered.Strengths “The Coach”: emphasizespurpose; challenges learners;realistic; lets people performand make mistakes; takesrisks; gives feedback; buildsconfidence; persuasive; givesopportunity and recognition“The Counselor”: sensitive;empathic; open;spontaneous; creative; a“mirror”; nonevaluative;accepting; responsive tolearners; facilitative;interactive; helpfulLimitations “Sink or Swim”; ends justifymeans; loses patience withslow learners; intimidating;insensitive; competitive;overly task oriented;opportunistic, returnoninvestment mentality“The Fuzzy Thinker”: vaguedirections; abstract, esoteric,or personal content; lacksperformance criteria;unconcerned with clock time;poor control of group; resists“teaching”; appearsunpreparedTrainer Style Contrasts (continued)286 ❘❚ Needless to say, the instruments discussed in this section, and others like them, canbe used to learn more about one’s own preferred styles. Such instruments can be veryhelpful in exploring and examining one’s own attitudes, biases, and ways of operating.Effective training requires an appropriate balance between trainer and trainee styles.Trainers can make a difference in how well people learn. Thus, they need to be aware oftheir tendency to structure a learning atmosphere in a manner that may be ineffectivewith a particular group of trainees. For example, trainers who train as listeners will bemost effective with learners who learn through experience. Conversely, listeners arelikely to be ineffective when training those who learn through observation. It is wise fortrainers to become more skillful in training people in a variety of ways in order to beeffective with as many people as possible.REFERENCESAdelson, J. (1961). The teacher as model. The American scholar, 30, 395398, 400401.Brostrom, R. (1979). Training style inventory. In J.E. Jones and J.W. Pfeiffer (Eds.), The 1979 annual handbookfor group facilitators. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Jacobs, R.T., & Fuhrmann, B.S. (1984). The concept of learning style. In J.W. Pfeiffer & L.D. Goodstein, (Eds.),The 1984 annual: Developing human resources. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Kolb, D.A. (1976). Learning style inventory: Technical manual. Boston: McBer.Mann, R.D., Arnold, S.M., Binder, J., Cytrunbaum, S., Newman, B.M., Ringwald, J., & Rosenwein, R. (1970). Thecollege classroom: Conflict, change, and learning. New York: John Wiley.Murrell, K.L. (1987). The learning model instrument: An instrument based on the learning model for managers. InJ.W. Pfeiffer (Ed.), The 1987 annual: Developing human resources. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company.Wheeler, M., & Marshall, J. (1986). The trainer type inventory (TTI): Identifying training style preferences. InJ.W. Pfeiffer & L.D. Goodstein (Eds.), The 1986 annual: Developing human resources. San Diego, CA:Pfeiffer & Company.SOURCEPfeiffer, J.W., & Ballew, A.C. (1988). Presentation and evaluation skills in human resource development (UATTseries, Vol. 7). San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer & Company. ❚❘ 287Listener Director Interpreter CoachLearningAtmosphereAffective Perceptual Symbolic BehavioralDominantLearning StyleConcreteexperienceReflectiveobservationAbstractconceptualizationActiveexperimentationMeans ofEvaluationImmediatepersonalfeedbackDiscipline based;External criteriaObjective criteria Learner’s ownjudgmentMeans ofLearningFree expressionof personalneedsMemorization;Knowing termsand rulesNew ways ofseeing thingsDiscussion withpeersInstructionalTechniqueReallifeapplicationLecture Case studies,Theory, ReadingActivities,Homework,ProblemsContact withLearnersSelfdirected;AutonomousLittleparticipationOpportunity tothink aloneActiveparticipationFocus Here and now How and why There and then What and howTransfer ofLearningPeople/Who Images/What Symbols/Why Actions/WhenSensoryPerceptionTouching Seeing andhearingPerceiving Motor SkillsTrainerTrainee Styles288 ❘❚  ❚❘ 289❚❘ TRANSFER OF LEARNINGOne measure of training effectiveness is the degree to which the skills and behaviorsthat are taught are applied by trainees when they return to their jobs. Because one goalof training is to increase employee effectiveness, many trainers believe that it is theirresponsibility to ensure that the concepts and skills taught in the classroom are appliedon the job. Trainers realize, of course, that if trainees are helped to become moreefficient, more effective, or more satisfied, productivity generally will improve andmanagement’s support for training often will increase.Research and experience suggest that several methods will increase the likelihoodthat trainees will use new learning. The methods that aid in the transfer of learningusually produce associations that help participants to transfer new concepts and skills toreallife situations.METHODS THAT ENCOURAGE THE TRANSFER OF LEARNINGJob environments can either facilitate or create barriers to the transfer of andmaintenance of learning. Barriers exist on the job because they are brought there bylearners, because they are created by supervisors and managers, or because they areinherent in the organizational context. However, methods to counteract the negativeeffects of barriers do exist. Methods commonly used to encourage the transfer oflearning from the training situation to the work situation are of four basic types:1. Building a receptive environment by involving managers and supervisors in thetraining process;2. Providing opportunities for trainees to apply concepts and to practice skills sothat learning can be integrated more easily into work situations;3. Planning posttraining action; and4. Planning and implementing followup activities.MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY INVOLVEMENTMany techniques that enhance onthejob receptiveness and support for training involvethe trainees’ supervisors and managers in the training process. Michalak and Yager(1979) state:The single most important factor in maintaining the behavior of trainees once they return to theirjobs is whether or not there is any positive reinforcement coming from the managers of the290 ❘❚ trainees. Positive reinforcement coming from immediate supervisors is the most powerfulmaintenance system. (p. 125)Supervisors can be involved in support of training before, during, and after actualtraining events. Before the training takes place, supervisors can be included in the needsassessment process so that trainers can learn about their perceptions of and desires forthe outcome of the training program. Supervisors can suggest specific skills andconcepts that should be included in the program; they also can help to select theemployees to be trained and can explain to those employees why they were chosen andwhat is expected of them.During and after the training, supervisors can participate in pilot programs so thatthey can experience the training firsthand and understand its relationship to theirparticular work situations; they can participate with trainees in parts of the training todiscuss their roles in helping the transfer and maintenance of new behaviors; and theycan initiate performancecoaching processes and other activities designed to reinforcenew behaviors.The more that supervisors and trainees discuss training outcomes, the higher theprobability that new skills, knowledge, and behaviors will be applied by trainees.APPLICATION AND PRACTICE OF NEW CONCEPTS AND SKILLSThe training itself may provide many opportunities for trainees to make connectionsbetween new concepts and skills and their daytoday work activities. Trainees may beasked to share their expectations and goals for the training at the start of the program,giving trainers the opportunity to tailor the training to participants’ needs. In addition,trainees who share their expectations with the group often feel more committed tomeeting those expectations.The training also can include activities (role plays, simulations, case studies, and soon) that allow trainees to apply concepts, to solve problems, and to practice new skills.Research indicates that similarities between activities and reallife work situationsfacilitate the transfer of learning. The practice and use of new skills can be supportedfurther by requiring trainees to document their attempts to apply skills on the job and byallowing time at the end of a training session for discussion of the important points.Finally, trainers need to be aware of their roles in modeling the desired behaviors.DEVELOPING AN ACTION PLANTraining sessions can be designed to include opportunities for trainees to planapplications of new concepts and skills. Action plans tend to work best when traineeslimit themselves to no more than three objectives and when trainees are asked to think ofpossible difficulties that might interfere with the implementation of their plans. Theprocess of developing and implementing an action plan is time consuming but ensurescontinued commitment. ❚❘ 291FOLLOWUP ACTIVITIESFollowup activities fall into two categories: (a) those involving reminders sent either bytrainers or by “buddies” to individual trainees, and (b) those involving subsequentmeetings of the original group of trainees.Trainees can refresh their memories by writing memos to themselves during thetraining session. These memos are given to the trainer and are mailed to the trainees at alater date. Trainers also can mail relevant materials—readings, bibliographies, flyersabout related programs, and notes of encouragement—to trainees.Followup sessions are opportunities for trainees to resolve problems that havearisen from attempts to apply new skills or behaviors. These sessions should bediscussions of workrelated problems only and must not be used as forums forintroducing new material. During followup activities, just as in actual training,participants must be given opportunities to practice new skills and to receive feedback.REFERENCEMichalak, D.F., & Yager, E.G. (1979). Making the training process work. New York: Harper & Row.SOURCEWarshauer, S. (1988). Inside training and development: Creating effective programs. San Diego, CA: Pfeiffer &Company.292 ❘❚ 1. Involve managers and supervisors in the training process.2. Allow trainees to apply concepts and to practice new skills.3. Plan posttraining action.4. Plan and implement followup activities.Four Methods That Facilitatethe Transfer of LearningFigure 71. Dynamic Message Signing on New Jersey Turnpike.MODULE 7. INFORMATION DISSEMINATION7.1 INTRODUCTIONIt is well known that the key to successfuldriving task performance is efficientinformation gathering and processing.(1)Likewise, properly communicating withmotorists is critical to successful freewaytraffic management and operations.Motorists rely on a wide variety ofinformation to properly accomplish thecontrol, guidance, and navigational aspectsof the driving task. The roadway alignmentand general terrain itself provides a greatdeal of this information through visual“cues;” sources such as pavement markingsand regulatory, warning, and guide signsalso contribute greatly to the overallinformation system. However, in aneffective freeway management system,dynamic methods of conveying informationto motorists or travelers are often needed tobetter operate and control the system.Freeway management systems rely onvarious information disseminationcomponents to apprise all types of travelers(motorists, transit users, commercial vehicleoperators, etc.) of current and anticipatedtravel conditions so that informed mode,departure time, and route choice decisionscan be made.Information dissemination is also managed inorder to improve travel conditions in the 74corridor by influencing traveler behavior (by and technologies being utilized forrecommending diversion routes around an information dissemination within theincident, for example). This information can integrated regional transportationbe disseminated from a variety of sources management system.(State departments of transportation, transitagencies, privatesector information serviceproviders, etc.) using a variety of methods(dynamic message signs, commercial radiotraffic reports, traffic information kiosks,etc.).MODULE OBJECTIVESThe objectives of this module are threefold:C To describe how to define, establish, andcoordinate effective traveler informationcomponents in a freeway managementsystem.C To identify existing and emergingtechnologies available to facilitateinformation dissemination to travelers.C To illustrate how informationdissemination components can integratewith each other and with othercomponents of a freeway managementsystem.MODULE SCOPEThis module addresses both traditional andemerging information disseminationprocesses and technologies for freewaymanagement systems. Whereas a number oftechnologies (i.e., dynamic message signs,highway advisory radio) have been aroundfor a number of years, there are newopportunities today. In the past, informationwas distributed in response to an incident.Today, the focus is to provide a continuousflow of information to travelers, businesses,and commercial carriers in order to maketheir trip travel time more predictable. Thefocus of this module is to emphasize theneed for integration among all components7.2 DESIGN PROCESSDecisions about when, where, and how todisseminate travelrelated information to thepublic have become much more complex inrecent years, due to improved traffic/weather/transit surveillance capabilities andexpanded information dissemination options.As with the other components that can beincluded in a freeway management system,the decisions necessary to develop andintegrate information dissemination into thesystem can be best accomplished byfollowing the basic decision processdescribed in Module 2. Specific applicationof this process to the task of incorporatinginformation dissemination into a freewaymanagement system is discussed in thefollowing sections.IDENTIFY NEEDSThe first step in the decision process is toidentify the need to be addressed throughinformation dissemination, or stated anotherway, the information needs that exist in thefreeway corridor. Two basic categories ofinformation dissemination exist:C Pretrip planning.C En route guidance and information.Table 71 presents examples of some of thespecific types of need and/or informationneeds in these categories. Certaininformation may be needed both pretrip anden route, whereas other information may beneeded for either one or the other. To theextent possible, these information needsshould be further defined by the following: 75Table 71. Information Need Categories.Category Examples of Information Needpretrip planning C current/anticipated traffic conditions speeds incident locations other congestion locations upcoming road closuresC weather effects pavement conditions road closuresC route guidance around incidents to special eventsC transit information bus schedules and status transfer locations rideshare matching (preplanning and realtimematching)en route guidance and C current traffic conditionsinformation  speeds incident locations other congestion locationsC weather effects pavement conditions road closuresC route guidance around incidents to special eventsC lane/shoulder/ramp use statusC Audience. is also important early on to identify thoseC Location. of agencies and/or the private sector toC Timeofday. concerns can be one such factor. SomeThese characteristics affect how well pavement condition information, forinformation can be received by the users, and example, for fear of establishing a precedentwhat types of responses can be expected that may be used against them if they fail tofrom the users who have that information warn of that pavement condition (or aavailable. similar one) in the future. PreestablishedIn addition to the needs to be addressed private sector companies regarding access tothrough information dissemination efforts, itfactors or issues that will influence the abilityprovide that information. Tort liabilityagencies may avoid providing currentagreements between public agencies and 76agency data may also influence the directionof future dissemination efforts.The problem identification step of thedecision process also includes an inventoryof existing information sources, includingmedia reports and private sector initiatives. Developing a consensus regarding theThe inventory can include such data items as importance of information dissemination andtarget audiences, accessibility, frequency of its role as part of an overall freewayreports, and information accuracy. If management system is the next step in thepossible, assessments of user satisfaction decision process. It is important that projectwith the information should also be obtained. partners take ownership of the effort upIDENTIFY INFORMATIONDISSEMINATION PARTNERSThe key partners in the development of the involved.information dissemination component of afreeway management system include the For example, highway and transit agenciesfollowing: may view the presence of some degree ofC Traditional State and local public sector different ways if an HOV lane is includedagencies (transportation and public within the freeway rightofway. Whereasworks, transit, toll authorities, law diverting freeway traffic to arterial streetsenforcement). might be a primary goal of the highwayC Commercial media. promote bus utilization and the HOV lane asC Private sector traffic reporting services Partners need to communicate these(distributing through commercial media concerns to each other so that a consensusvenues or through direct subscription to about goals can be reached.motorists).C Local fleet operators (delivery services, differences in operational philosophiestaxis, etc.). between public agencies and private sectorIn some cases, the owners/operators of drive public agency decisions regarding themajor traffic generators (malls, tourist dissemination of travelrelated information,attractions, annual special event promotions, marketing opportunities and profit motivesetc.) could also be important partners to will generally dictate private sector interests,include in the decisionmaking process. perceptions, and decisions. A clear underBUILD CONSENSUS AMONGPARTNERSIdentify Differences in OperatingPhilosophies Among Partnersfront, or it may never work. To make thishappen, it is important to identify andunderstand the differences in operationalphilosophies of the different partnersrecurrent congestion on the freeway in veryagency, the transit agency may desire toa means of reducing that congestion.The partners must also be aware of theentities. Whereas equity concerns typicallystanding of the differences among thesephilosophies is required. 77Establish Common Ground Between ESTABLISH GOALS ANDPartners OBJECTIVESOnce operational and philosophical differ Once a consensus has been establishedences among the various partners have been among the partners involved withidentified, the next step is to establish areas information dissemination efforts, it isof common concern or priorities between the necessary to define the goals and specificpartners with respect to travelrelated objectives that are going to be addressedinformation dissemination. Common ground through this component of the freewaymust be established both at the upper management system. As discussed inmanagement and political level, and at the Module 2, goals are broad statements of thedaytoday operations level. Information intent of the system or one of itsdissemination requires upper management components, whereas objectives are specificand political support of a common vision of statements about what the system orinformation availability in order to ensure component of that system will attempt tocontinued funding support. Meanwhile, accomplish. A given goal may have moreconsensus among partners at the operations than one objective specified to reach thatlevel is needed to promote true operations goal. Table 72 presents examples of goalsintegration among the various information and objectives an agency might have for thedissemination components utilized within the information dissemination component of itscorridor. freeway management system.Table 72. Examples of Goals and Objectives for Information Dissemination.Category ExamplesGoals C Reduce motorist demands upstream of a freewayincidentC Reduce motorist errors in locating unfamiliardestinationsC Reduce transit user uncertainty about bus arrivalsObjectives C Warn motorists of adverse weather conditionsC Notify motorists of downstream incidentsC Advise motorists when to seek alternative routesC Provide motorists with origintodestination routeguidance assistanceC Inform motorists at parkandride lots when the nextbus will arrive 78In general terms, each of the objectives C The information must be accurate.developed for information disseminationshould be specific enough to answer the C The information must be timely.following questions: (1)C Who is being communicated with? intended audience.C What responses are desired or While these are generally accepted concepts,anticipated? it is sometimes difficult to identify and obtainC Where will the responses take place? which to judge them. This task is furtherESTABLISH PERFORMANCECRITERIA AND MEASURESIn order to assess the extent to which mance measures that could be used toinformation dissemination efforts within a evaluate the credibility of information beingfreeway management system are meeting disseminated to motorists are provided ingoals and objectives, a set of performance Table 73. Local concerns and capabilitiescriteria and measuresofeffectiveness will dictate which performance measures arepertaining to these efforts must be identified. most appropriate for evaluating informationRelative to information dissemination, credibility in a given locale.performance criteria have three differentdimensions that are of interest:C Information credibility. Market penetration refers to the percentageC Market penetration. information dissemination efforts.C Traveler response. penetration may be appropriate forThese three dimensions are interrelated. The technologies, particularly those emerging asfollowing sections provide additional details part of Advanced Traveler Informationand examples of criteria for each of the Systems (ATIS). It is expected that someabove dimensions. technologies, such as invehicle dynamicInformation CredibilityAn information dissemination tool must be such as information kiosks in major trafficcredible to travelers if it is to be utilized and generators, may require agencies to strivehave an impact upon traffic operations. The for as great a market penetration as possiblefollowing criteria define how credibility is in order to distribute the information to aestablished: wider audience and possibly attract private(2)C The information must be relevant to itsobjective and quantifiable measures withcomplicated by the fact that the measuresthemselves may depend on the specificmessage or unit of information that a partneris trying to convey. Examples of perforMarket Penetrationof the potential audience reached by thePerformance criteria regarding marketevaluating certain system goals androute guidance, will require only limitedmarket penetration in order to achieveoperational benefits. Other technologies,sector advertising and sponsorship. 79Table 73. Examples of Performance Measures for Information Dissemination.Category ExamplesInformation accuracy C Difference in the number of incidents in the system andnumber of incidents reportedC Difference between reported expected arrival times of busesand the times the buses actually arrive at a transit stationC Number of complaints received from the public aboutinaccurate information (by device and type of information)Information timeliness C Average delay time between when an incident is verified andwhen information about the incident is disseminated totravelersInformation relevance C Number of travelers who access a given informationcomponent or unitTraveler ResponseUltimately, the purpose of providing dissemination modes upon traffic volumes,information to travelers is to effect some speeds, or delays. The daytoday varianceschange in traveler behavior that will cause an in travel patterns themselves may mask theimprovement in safety or operations. Thus, effects of any information disseminatedperformance measures are also needed to during a specific event such as an incident,determine the extent to which information particularly if the information is intended fordissemination accomplishes this purpose. a very specific audience (such as vehiclesChanges in traveler mode, departure time, within a freeway traffic stream destined forand route (if appropriate) are appropriate for a specific downstream exit).evaluating the effectiveness of realtimetravelrelated information. However, it may Consequently, it may sometimes bebe very difficult and expensive to obtain necessary to include performance measuresactual data for these measures. Traveler that evaluate the effect of informationopinions about the effectiveness of the dissemination at an individual traveler’sinformation being provided can be another level. For example, trip diaries that identifyimportant evaluation measure. Reductions a specific driver’s travels on any given dayin travel time, turning and route choice may need to be compared to determineerrors, or similar measures may also be whether the presence of information had anyuseful to evaluate certain types of influence on driving behavior for that selectinformation. group with drivers on that particular day. (3)It is important to recognize that because of manpower intensive, however.the complex travel patterns of travelers atany point in the roadway, it may not bepossible to adequately measure the overalleffects of many types of information orThis approach can be very costly and 710FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTSThe functional requirements of information requirements definition process fordissemination components in a freeway information dissemination. The functionsmanagement system define specific actions described in the National Architecture mustor activities that are to be performed in order then be detailed to match the needs andto achieve one or more of the objectives. desires of the local agencies.Initially, the functions should be definedwithout considering the dissemination Details regarding who should receivetechnology or system architecture that will information, as well as when and where thatbe employed. Functions simply specify what should occur, all become a part of theinformation will be disseminated and functional definitions. The intent of this steppossibly when and where it is to be in the design process is not only to specifypresented, not how this will be done. Table functions independent of the technology that74 presents some examples of functional could be used to achieve those functions, butrequirements for various information also to highlight what and why otherdissemination objectives. components of the freeway managementThe ITS National Architecture should serveas the basic building block of the functional(4)system must link with the informationdissemination components.Table 74. Examples of Functional Requirements forInformation Dissemination Objectives.Examples of Objectives Examples of Possible FunctionsC Warn motorists of adverse C Notify freeway motorists of downstream roadwayweather conditions flooding whenever more than 100 mm of watercollects in an underpass sectionC Notify motorists approaching an entrance rampwhenever the freeway is closed because of adverseweather conditions such as high winds or iceC Notify motorists of C Within “X” minutes of its occurrence, notify freewaydownstream incidents motorists of any incident that occurs in the travellanes within the next exit or decision pointC Advise motorists when to C If the road is closed due to an accident, recommendseek alternative routes that freeway motorists traveling to the CBD exit atan upstream connector to a parallel toll roadwhenever travel times to the CBD on the freewayare more than “X” minutes longer than on the tollroad 711For example, an information dissemination Locations of potential informationfunction that gives route specific travel times dissemination conflicts can be identifiedrequires that travel time monitoring be a beforehand (a highway and a transit agencyfunction in the freeway management system. may want to display information at the sameLikewise, a function of notifying motorists roadway location, for example). Perhapsabout downstream laneblocking incidents more commonly, locations and situationswithin a set time also affects the design of where information sharing between partnersthe freeway surveillance component of the can occur may be identified, and result in afreeway management system (what type of more efficient system design.vehicle detection technology can be used,how close together detectors must beplaced, etc.). As a final example, notifyingmotorists that lanes are closed downstreamfor maintenance work implies that a Once the system requirements formechanism for determining when and where information dissemination have beensuch closures occur is available via direct developed, it is then appropriate to assesscommunication between the maintenance the actual technologies available to meet theand operations divisions of the functional and system architecturaltransportation agency, observation of the requirements that have been developed forclosure via closedcircuit television, or other meeting the goals and objectives ofmethods. information dissemination. TechnologiesDEFINE FUNCTIONALRELATIONSHIPS, DATAREQUIREMENTS, ANDINFORMATION FLOWSThe purpose of defining functional occurs at a specific point or within arelationships, data requirements, and very small segment of roadway (i.e.,information flows is to establish an using dynamic message signs or highwayunderstanding of how the various advisory radios.)information dissemination functions that areto be accomplished will be integrated with C Those located within the vehicle whereeach other and with the other components in the information transfer is notthe freeway management system. In this constrained to a point or a small segmentstep, the relationships between information of roadway (e.g., using radio, cellulardissemination functions are further refined to telephone, or invehicle navigationincorporate local issues, concerns, and devices).capabilities.The relationships between the desired roadway altogether (e.g., usinginformation dissemination functions and television, computer linkages, or kiosksnecessary data flows to those functions can in major traffic generators).be particularly important when designing afreeway management system, especially if A review of the technologies in each of theseseveral partners are involved in the three categories is provided later in thisinformation dissemination process. module. This review can serve as theIDENTIFY AND SCREENTECHNOLOGIESthat are available for informationdissemination can be grouped into one ofthree categories:C Those located on the roadway where theinformation transfer to the travelerC Those located off of or away from the 712starting point for the technology screening Implementation plan development isprocess. However, technology in the governed by federal guidelines, and isinformation dissemination realm continues to required for all new or expanded trafficchange rapidly and should be reassessed control system projects that utilize federaleach time this point is reached in the decision funds. Actually, an implementation plan isprocess. a good idea for all traffic control systemInitial screening can be used to determine utilize federal funds.which of the three basic categories can beused to effectively accomplish each of the Module 2 described the general guidelinesspecified information dissemination regarding overall plan development for afunctions. More than one of the categories freeway management system. In thismay be useable. Then, within each category, section, special issues of plan developmenta more detailed screening and evaluation are discussed that relate specifically to theprocess can help select among the various information dissemination components of aalternatives of that technology. Screening freeway management system.should include such considerations as thefollowing: Because information dissemination must be(5)coordinated among the various partners, aC Legibility (for visual information portion of the plan should be devoted to acomponents). discussion of the management structure andC Reliability. achieve this coordination. Items to beC Costs to the user and public agency follows:(these should be lifecycle costs,discussed in greater detail in Module C Names of contact person(s) for each11). partner.C Potential market size. C Protocols and methods to be utilized toIf, for some reason, the screening processdoes not identify technologies that can C Definition of each partner’sadequately perform the functions that were responsibilities regarding informationestablished, then the analyst must step exchange.backwards and reassess the objectives and/orfunctions of the information dissemination C Estimates of each partner’s financialcomponent of the freeway management contribution to the effort (cash, inkindsystem. Objectives and associated functions exchange of equipment or services, etc.).may have to be scaled back or otherwisemodified. C Letters or memoranda of agreementDEVELOP IMPLEMENTATIONPLANThe next step in the process is the the letter of agreement if some of thedevelopment of an implementation plan. partners will jointly operate some of the(6)projects, regardless of whether or not theythe agreements that will be utilized toincluded in this portion of the plan are ascoordinate.regarding the desire to coordinate amongpartners.Additional details may need to be included in 713information dissemination technologies to be information dissemination rules for theimplemented. For example, a transportation system they have learned to decide whatagency may wish to allow law enforcement messages need to be displayed, on whichpersonnel to access and utilize their dynamic signs they should be displayed, etc.message signs or highway advisory radioequipment for managing major incidentsduring latenight hours when thetransportation agency does not have Identification of funding source alternativessomeone on duty. actually occurs as part of the planA detailed implementation plan is also components of freeway managementneeded in order to properly coordinate systems, the partners involved in informationinformation dissemination within the freeway dissemination can share costs through somemanagement system. Whereas the letters of combination of the following:agreement and discussion of themanagement structure lay out broad C Individual agency hardware purchasesadministrative boundaries and consensus to and operation/maintenance which iscoordinate, the implementation plan spells coordinated with another agency’sout in detail how this will occur. efforts in the region.An implementation plan may include specific C Inkind contribution of equipment andpreplanned actions that will be taken in services to a pooled service.response to certain common or expectedsituations (i.e., which dynamic message signs C Establishment of user fee scheduleswill be activated and what will be displayed (direct or indirect).on them in response to an incident thatoccurs on a specific section of freeway), as Several different cooperative institutionalwell as more general rules that will be used arrangements have been successfully utilizedto decide what information to present for to distribute information dissemination costsunusual, unexpected situations. For in a rational and equitable manner to publicexample, the TransGuide Traffic and private partners. For the TRANSCOMManagement System in San Antonio, Texas organization in New York/New Jersey, cashhas over 60,000 preplanned “scenarios” and inkind contributions from each membercoded into a computerized database. agency fund the operations of theDepending on the time of day, location of an organization. Each partner has an officialincident, and the number of lanes that are assigned to the TRANSCOM executiveblocked, a specific scenario is selected that committee, which works together todefines which dynamic message signs and establish the actual fee structure,lane control signals are to be activated and management policies, and other matters ofthe messages that are to be displayed on concern to the agencies as a group.each (i.e., “LEFT LANE CLOSEDAHEAD”). Most of the time, system In Boston, the SmarTraveler cellular callinoperators simply activate one of these system is sponsored in large part by FHWApreplanned actions. Occasionally, a freeway and the Massachusetts Highway Departproblem develops for which preplanned ment, but is managed by a privatesectoractions have not been developed. In these limited partnership, SmartRoute. Severalcases, system operators use basic other privatesector companies (cellularIDENTIFY FUNDING SOURCESdevelopment process. As with the other(9) (10) 714telephone companies, a paging company, the credibility of the overall system with theand broadcast media) purchase some of the traveler can be severely degraded by havinginformation being managed and the devices in place and not using them or bydisseminated, which has helped offset some having the devices display wrongof the costs to the public agencies. information. One of the problems reported (11)In San Antonio, Texas, both public and York was that the DMSs for the projectprivatesector partners have entered into a were installed early on in the contract andCooperative Industry Product Agreement to then sat there unused for several years as thefacilitate the development and agencies built the rest of the infrastructure.implementation of the software that will Since it was not immediately apparent todecode the video and data transmissions motorists why the devices could not be usedfrom a lowpower television station that the to communicate about downstream roadwayTexas Department of Transportation has and traffic conditions, public opinion aboutpurchased and will operate. This has the project suffered. (12)allowed the various potential beneficiaries ofthe system (i.e., media stations, fleet Another important facet of informationoperators, etc.) to contribute to software dissemination implementation is thedevelopment for a relatively small price (and development of training necessary to assistrisk). Furthermore, it provides a mechanism travelers in correctly interpreting andto allow future partners to enter into the responding to some of the informationagreement in a fair and equitable manner. dissemination technologies. For example,(12)IMPLEMENTImplementation of information dissemination lane periodically throughout the freewaycomponents in the freeway management network. As a result, motorist compresystem occurs as a natural result of following hension of the available symbols for thethe systems engineering process. Module 2 signals are somewhat higher in Fort Worthdescribed, in general terms, the than in other locations in Texas. Otherimplementation activities that should occur possible training alternatives include publicat this point in the process. In addition to service announcements or mailing inserts inthe issues brought out in that module, other local utility bills.concerns that pertain directly to informationdissemination include:C Implementation schedule. The final step in the design process is toC User training. dissemination component of the freewayInformation dissemination is the main link uation should not be considered a onetimebetween the freeway management system activity, but should be part of a periodicand the motoring public. Experience review of the effectiveness of theindicates that the implementation of information dissemination components andinformation dissemination devices should of the overall system. As discussedoccur only after the surveillance and control previously, it is rather difficult to measureinfrastructure has been installed. Otherwise, the impact of information disseminationby officials of the INFORM project in Newthe Texas Department of Transportation inFort Worth displays the meaning of lanecontrol signals mounted over each travel(13)EVALUATEevaluate the effectiveness of the informationmanagement system. However, this eval 715upon overall traffic measures, because of the Specific technologies available in each ofstochastic nature of travel demands and these categories are discussed below.behavior in a given freeway corridor, as wellas the events which cause disruptions tothese demands (incidents, special events,etc.).One of the most fundamental technologiesCare should be taken not to overestimate the available for disseminating trafficrelatedbenefits achieved by the implementation of information from the roadside is that ofinformation dissemination components in a dynamic message signs (DMS). DMSs arefreeway management system. Specifically, it sometimes referred to as changeableis important to recognize that travel patterns message signs (CMS) or variable messagein a freeway corridor are quite dynamic, and signs (VMS). DMSs allow operatingthat some drivers will divert naturally when agencies to visually disseminate travelthey encounter freeway congestion information to motorists on a near realtimeregardless of whether or not they receive basis. DMSs use words, numbers, orinformation beforehand about that symbols to convey information. They arecongestion. Therefore, information extremely flexible and powerful trafficdissemination should be considered as management tools in freeway operations.having an incremental effect upon trafficconditions by modifying where and how DMSs can be either portable or fixed, andsome travelers respond to congestion (where can be operated either on a fixedtime basistravel routes are changed, how many with onsite control or interconnected withmotorists change departure times, how many a traffic control center to provide remotechanged modes, etc.). control. DMSs can be used to perform the7.3 TECHNIQUES ANDTECHNOLOGIESInformation dissemination components of afreeway management system can range froma single device owned and operated by oneagency, to an integrated collection of devicesand mechanisms under the control of severalagencies and several private sector entities.In this handbook, a basic distinction is madebetween kinds of information depending onwhich of three main locations it comes from:C Onroadway information.C Invehicle information.C Offroadway information (typically atorigin of a trip).ONROADWAY INFORMATIONTECHNOLOGIES(14)following functions:C Inform motorists of varying traffic,roadway, and environmental conditions.C Provide specific information relative tothe location and delays associated withincidents.C Advise motorists on detour routesbecause of construction or roadwayclosure.C Suggest alternate routes to avoidfreeway congestion.C Reassure drivers on unfamiliar alternateroutes.C Redirect diverted drivers back tofreeways. 716Table 75 lists the applications for which Lightreflecting signs reflect light from someDMSs can be used. external source such as the sun, headlights,(14)Types of DMSDMSs can be conveniently classified into generate their own light on or behind thethree categories, namely: viewing surface. Examples of different typesC Lightreflecting. 73.C Lightemitting. Some manufacturers have combined twoC Hybrid. fiberoptic) to produce hybrid displays thator overhead lighting. Figure 72 showsexamples of different types of lightreflectingDMSs. In comparison, lightemitting DMSsof lightemitting DMSs are shown in figureDMS technologies (e.g., reflective disk andTable 75. Applications of DMSs. (14)Category ApplicationsTraffic management and C Freeway traffic advisory and incidentdiversion C Freewaytofreeway diversionC Special eventsC Adverse road and weather conditionsC Speed advisoryWarning of adverse conditions C Adverse weather and environmental conditions(fog, smog, snow, rain, dust, wind, etc.)C Adverse road conditions (ice, snow, slipperypavement, high water, etc.)C Low bridge clearanceControl at crossings C Bridge controlC Tunnel controlC Mountain pass controlC Weigh station controlC Toll station controlControl during construction and C Advisory of upcoming construction/maintenancemaintenance operations C Speed advisoryC Path controlSpecialuse lane and roadway C Reversible lanescontrol C Exclusive lanesC Contraflow lanesC Restricted roadwaysC Temporary freeway shoulder use control 717Figure 72. Examples of LightReflecting DMS Technologies.exhibit the qualities of both. Some agencieshave also combined DMSs with staticdisplays to form what can also be considered The basic categories of lightreflectingto be hybrid displays. DMSs are as follows:Several references are available that describe C Foldout.the operational and performancecharacteristics of various DMSs (see C Scroll.references 1, 14, 15, 16) The followingparagraphs, taken from those references, C Rotating drum.briefly describe the different types of DMSsin each category. C Reflective disk matrix.LightReflecting DMSsBasic operations and characteristics of eachare described below. 718Figure 73. Examples of LightEmitting DMS Technologies.Foldout. A foldout sign is a conventionalhighway sign with a hinged viewing face.This type of sign can either display twomessages (one with the hinged face closed, Scroll (or Tape). A scroll sign uses a tapeone with it open) or show a message only or film upon which desired messages arewhen the hinged face is open (no message is imprinted. The tape is then rolled one waydisplayed when the hinged face is closed). or the other (or up or down) to place aTypically, signing materials that conform desired message within a display window.directly to the Manual on Uniform Traffic As with foldout signs, scroll signs can useControl Devices (MUTCD) are used to colors and other message characteristics thatmake each message. For freeway conform with the MUTCD. Typically, up toapplications, they are most often used to 8 to 12 messages can be stored on the tape.indicate icy bridge or other hazardous The inclusion of more than 12 messages canroadway conditions, or to indicate whethertruck weigh stations are open or closed. 719create long changetimes if one or more of C Fixedgrid or shuttered matrix fiberthe messages is at the opposite end of the optic.tape.Rotating Drum. Rotating drum signs aremade up of one to four multifaced drums,each containing two to six messages. Each Neon or BlankOut Signs. Neon signs useface of each drum portrays one line of a neon tubing to form characters and messagesfixed message, and pivots about its axis in that are to be displayed. Two basic signorder to display the appropriate face for a designs are possible:given message. Colors and letteringcharacteristics that conform to the MUTCD C Separate each message on the sign face.can also be used on rotating drum signs.Reflective Disk Matrix. These types ofDMSs were very popular for freewaymanagement purposes in the 1970s due totheir low energy requirements relative tolightemitting DMS technologies. Theviewing face of a reflective disk matrix DMSis comprised of an array of permanentlymagnetized, pivoted indicators that are flatmatte black on one side and reflective yellowor a similar color on the other. Theindicators may be square, rectangular, or Lamp (Incandescent Bulb) Matrix Signs.circular in shape. An electrical current A lamp matrix DMS relies on an array ofactivated when a given pixel is to be turned incandescent bulbs affixed to a darkflips the indicator from a black matte finish background to create the characters neededto the reflective side. The sign itself can for a given message. The DMS can be aexist of a series of arrays of these indicators continuous array of bulbs, or a series of(e.g., 5 pixels by 7 pixels, or similar grid for array modules, each of which can display aeach letter position), or a continuous grid or single character in the overall message. Thismatrix over the entire sign face. The latter design provides considerable messageprovides more flexibility to operators, but at flexibility, limited only by the size of the signa higher purchase price. (typically 4 lines of text, each comprised ofLightEmitting DMSsThe following types of lightemitting DMStechnologies are described in this section:C Neon or blankout.C Lamp (incandescent mulb) matrix.C Fixedgrid or matrix lightemitting diode(LED).C Stack the neon tubing for each messageone over another.The stacked design has reported drawbacks,in that emitted light will be diffused as itpasses through the overlayed neon tubing,reducing its legibility. Conversely, theseparate message design will require a fairlylarge sign face in order to display even amoderate number of messages.12 to 20 characters).FixedGrid or Shuttered Matrix Fiberoptic Signs. Fiberoptic DMSs funnel lightenergy from a light source through fiberbundles to the sign face. For a fixedgridfiberoptic sign, the ends of these bundles(pixels) are positioned on the sign face tocreate a given message. Sets of bundles anda separate light source are then used for eachmessage portrayed on the sign. Conversely, 720the shuttered matrix fiberoptic DMS manufacturers have combined fiberoptic orpositions the ends of the fiber bundles on the LED technologies into these types of signssign face in an array similar to that used for to give them the visual boost they need.other matrix signs. The light sources for all During the times of the day that the sunof the fiber bundles remain on constantly, shines upon the sign and provides adequateand shutters at the ends of the bundles open visibility, the light sources are turned off byand close to create the characters needed to the sign. In addition to providing thedisplay each message. As with the lamp additional visual boost during nighttimematrix DMS, the shuttered fiberoptic signs conditions, this technology also eliminatescan be either a continuous array of pixels or the need for external lighting on the sign.a series of array modules, each of which This eliminates the potential for glare off ofportrays a single character. Because of its the sign face as well. Some agencies areflexibility, this tends to be the more common retrofitting reflective disk DMSs with hybridtype of fiberoptic DMS utilized for freeway reflective disk/fiberoptic technology.traffic management purposes.FixedGrid or Matrix LightEmitting hybrid DMS currently in use employsDiode (LED) Signs. Lightemitting diodes components of both static signing and one of(LEDs) are semiconductors that glow when the DMS technologies into a single sign.voltage is applied. Recent advances in LED This can reduce costs in situations when parttechnology have allowed DMS of a message will be constant and anothermanufacturers to utilize this technology to part of the message will be changed. Also,construct both fixedgrid and matrix style the static components can be constructed toDMSs. Typically, several individual LEDs conform to MUTCD principles. However,are “clustered” together in order to create this approach does limit the use of the signeach pixel. Early versions of the LED DMSs to the specific situations addressed by theexperienced difficulties in maintaining static component of the message.acceptable performance levels over time.However, LED manufacturers have strivedto alleviate many of these types of problemsin the next generation of DMSs that havebeen developed. The selection of appropriate DMS (16)Hybrid DMSsTwo of the most common types of hybrid display cost (including operating andDMSs are the following: maintenance considerations). FurtherC Reflective disk with fiberoptics/LEDs. large number of signing techniques available,C Static sign/DMS combination. operating features. Tables 76 through 78Reflective Disks with Fiberoptics/LEDs.To combat the times of the day andenvironmental conditions when reflectivedisk DMSs are not very visible, some(15)Static/DMS. The other major type of(1)Advantages and Disadvantages of theDMS Technologiestechnology is a complex task requiringanalysis of tradeoffs between displaycapability to fulfill a specific need andcomplicating the selection process is theeach possessing quite different design andpresent a summary of the advantages anddisadvantages that have been reported foreach type of DMS technology (seereferences 1, 14, 15, 16). 721Table 76. Advantages and Disadvantages of LightReflecting DMSs.(Adapted from 1,2,1416)Type Advantages DisadvantagesFoldout Simple operation Limited capacity (1 or 2 messages)Can conform to MUTCD regulatory Higher potential for environmentaland warning signing principles and mechanical failures (i.e., panelsjamming)Scroll Simple operation Limited capacity (8 to 12 messages)Can conform to MUTCD regulatory Time to change messages may beand warning signing principles significantRotating Drum Simple operation Limited character sizeCan conform to MUTCD regulatory Limited message capabilities (butand warning signing principles more than foldout or scroll)Disk Matrix Total message display flexibility Visibility typically lower thanWider angle of legibility than DMSsfiberoptic or LED DMSs (see Table77) Disks sometimes stick or failLow power consumption relative to moisturelightemitting DMSssimilar size lightemitting matrixprematurely due to excessive dirt orIllumination is required at night,sometimes causing glare or blurringproblemsToo often agencies will purchase DMSs information can be disseminated to thebefore signing objectives and messages are motorist by audio or visual means. Thedetermined. Often, this causes following sections describe the basic types ofdisappointment in the DMSs when these invehicle information technologies.agencies cannot display the desiredmessages, or when the signs provide lowerthan expected target value and legibility forthe environmental conditions present at thesite. Conversely, agencies may end up(2)purchasing a more expensive DMS withcapabilities that exceed their actual needs. Although not as widely used as dynamicINVEHICLE INFORMATIONAnother realm of information system vehicles. Traditionally, information is relayedtechnologies available are those located to highway users through the AM radiowithin the vehicle itself. Invehicle receiver in their vehicles. Upstream of theAuditory InVehicle InformationTechnologiesHighway Advisory Radiomessage signs, Highway Advisory Radio(HAR) is another means of providinghighway users with information in their 722Table 77. Advantages and Disadvantages of LightEmitting DMSs.(Adapted from 1,2,1416)Type Advantages DisadvantagesNeon (blank out) Simple operation Limited message capacityRequires a fairly large sign for evenmoderate number of messagesCurrent designs to not allow fornighttime dimmingLamp (Incandescent) Simple, proven operation Continuous energy supply requiredMatrix to display messageHigh target valueMessage flexibility costs (energy, bulb replacement)High operation and maintenanceFixed Grid Fiberoptic Low power usage Narrow cone of visionCan display symbols and messages Limited message capacityShuttered Matrix Simple operation Narrow cone of visionFiberopticMessage flexibility Mechanical component (shutters)Low failure rates reported costsincreases potential maintenanceFixed Grid LED Low power usage Narrow cone of visionSolid state devices (no bulbs) Limited message capabilityReported reliability of LED lamps Intensity adversely affected by highis very high temperaturesLongterm performance not knownSuperbright LED lamps must beused for adequate daytime visibilityMatrix LED Low power usage Narrow cone of visionSolid state devices (no bulbs) Intensity adversely affected by highReported reliability of LED lampsis very high Longterm performance not knowntemperaturesSuperbright LED lamps must beused for adequate daytime visibility 723Table 78. Advantages and Disadvantages of Hybrid DMSs.(Adapted from 1,2 1416)Type Advantages DisadvantagesDisk Matrix with Some energy conservation (light Use of LED technology limited toFiberoptics or LEDs emitting technology is turned off in date (longterm performance notdaytime conditions) known)Eliminates need for nighttime More complex operationillumination of sign (maintenance may be more costly)Combined Static/DMS Portions of sign can conform to Static portions of sign limitsMUTCD regulatory and warning message flexibilitysigning principlesSome cost savings is possible may wash out static portions of signrelative to fullmatrix DMSs if too brightLightemitting DMS technologyHAR signal, users are instructed to tune C Notification of highway construction ortheir vehicle radios to a specific frequency maintenance.via roadside or overhead signs. Usually, theinformation is relayed to the users by a pre C Alternate route information.recorded message, although live messagescan also be broadcast. C Advisories within and regardingMessage transmissions can be controlled events, and other major trafficeither onsite or from a remote location generators, etc.).through telephone or radio interconnects.Most HAR systems operate at the 530 or One of the major advantages of using HAR1610 kHz frequency level; however, any is that information is received through aavailable frequency can be used as long as a different sensory channel (audio), whichlow enough power level is used. A license reduces information overload receivedfrom the Federal Communication visually while driving. Also, longer andCommission is required to operate a HAR more complex messages can be provided tosystem at high power levels (10 watts or motorists than can be accomplished usinggreater). DMSs. However, traditional HAR systemsHAR is used in many different applications. action (i.e., tuning radio to appropriateWith respect to freeway management, uses frequency) in order to receive information.of HAR are similar to those of DMSs, and Also, if a motorist misses one part of aninclude the following: HAR message, he or she must listen to theC Warning of roadway incidents or missed part.congestion.C Warning of adverse environmental vertical “whip” antenna systems andconditions (fog, ice, etc.). induction cable antenna systems. Verticaltransportation terminals (airports, special(17)have their drawbacks. They require motoristentire message again in order to obtain theThere are two types of HAR systems:“whip” antenna systems use individual 724antennas or a series of antennas C Interference with other radio systems inelectronically connected together to transmit the area is minimized.information. The signal radiates from theantenna in all directions providing a circular Disadvantages of induction cable HARarea of transmission. Vertical antenna systems include the following:systems have the following advantages:C They are small. expensive to purchase and maintain sinceC They are easy to install. the desired coverage area.C They can be placed within several C Once installed, induction cable HARhundred feet of the roadway. systems cannot be transported from oneC They are less costly to purchase andinstall than induction cable systems.Vertical antenna systems also have the One of the disadvantages of HAR systems isfollowing disadvantages: that they require advance signing to notifyC They are subject to damage by weather, and an action by the motorist to activate andaccidents, and vandalism. receive that information. AutomatedC They often require special equipment to have been proposed that require no actionsensure that the signal is stable, reliable, by the motorist to obtain radio information.and easily tuneable. These systems emit a special electronicC Motorists can lose the HAR signal when message, which interrupts the speciallytraveling through tunnels, canyons, etc. designed radio/cassette/compact disc playerInduction cable antenna systems use a cableinstalled either under the pavement or FHWA sponsored the prototypeadjacent to the roadway. This type of development and pilot testing of an AHARantenna design produces a strong but highly system in the early 1980s. However,localized signal within a short lateral distance the difficulties associated with producing and30 to 45 m (100 to 150 ft) from the cable. marketing a receiver within a price rangeInduction cable systems have the following acceptable to motorists hindered furtheradvantages: AHAR implementation. However, recentC The signal is strong enough to provide interest in AHAR systems. Michigan isfull coverage of a multilane facility experimenting with alternative AHARwithout causing interference to other designs at this time. Meanwhile, EuropeHAR systems. has been experimenting with a version ofC Messages can be individualized by Data System  Traffic Managementdirection of travel. Channel ) for the past few years.C Induction cable systems are morethe cable must extend the full length oflocation to another.Automated HAR (AHAR)motorists of the availability of information,highway advisory radio (AHAR) systemsnotification signal upstream of an HARto broadcast the message to the motorist. (18,19)emphasis on ITS has sparked renewed(20)these types of systems (termed the RadioThis system relies on a silent data channel725broadcast via FM from existing radio Many metropolitan areas have establishedstations. With an appropriate radio receiver, cellular “hotlines” for motorists to call in anda motorist is then able to receive information report accident information to the highwayfrom the closest or strongest FM radio signal agency. Examples include #77 and *SP.at that location. The public agency must negotiate with the(15)Cellular Telephone “Hotlines”An invehicle communication technology Recommendations for establishing cellularthat has seen dramatic growth in the past telephone “hotline” systems include thefew years is cellular telephones, which gives following:the motorist the ability to call special“hotline” systems for traffic information C The call must be tollfree to users.from within their vehicle. Originally, thesesystems allowed motorists and transit users C The telephone number must be easy toto call for information to assist in pretrip remember and dial.decisions from their homes. Information cannow be accessed en route via cellular C The information must be concise.telephone, and decisions can be madewhether to alter travel routes. The creation C If a menu system is used, a long andof callin systems has been a popular traffic tedious menu selection process should beimpact mitigation strategy for many major avoided.urban freeway reconstruction projects inrecent years. C A sufficient number of telephone lines(21)One of the more successful examples of this majority of users from receiving a busytechnology is the two SmarTraveler systems signal.now in place in Boston and Cincinnati. (10)Both systems employ special telephone C If a system is going to be used to gathernumbers to keep the service free to cellular information from users, there must be atelephone users. Touchtone menus allow method of ensuring the accuracy of thecallers to receive routespecific traffic incoming information.information (delays, construction activity,recommended alternative routes), bus and C “Official” use of tipster informationtrain scheduling, and special event should include procedures for verifyingtransportation information. that information.This type of invehicle communication has C If incident information is to be received,the advantage over HAR of giving the a human operator is recommended somotorist some control over the type and that secondary questions can be asked toamount of information he/she wants to clarify confusing or unclear reports.obtain through the touchtone menus. Inaddition, it is also possible to generate two As with HAR systems, this technology alsoway communication between the motorist requires action by the motorist to accessand the information source. information. There are also significantcellular companies to provide the toll freecalls.should be provided to prevent theoperating costs associated with thistechnology, as any calls made using cellular 726telephones must be paid for by either the and cooperation between themselves and themotorist, or a public agency, or else media traffic reporters. For example, someabsorbed by the corporation providing agencies allow private traffic reportingcellular telephone communication agencies to place personnel in the trafficcapabilities in the region. Finally, there is management center to obtain information onsome concern that cellular telephone usage traffic conditions and expected agencywhile driving may degrade motorist attention responses in an accurate and timely manner.and operating capabilities. Manufacturershave developed “handsfree” telephones thatallow motorists to listen and talk withoutholding the telephone receiver. Even though it was once considered anCommercial RadioThe public has learned to depend upon the popularity in recent years. However, theremedia to provide them with “almost” real are still a significant number of vehicles,time traffic information. Commercial radio particularly commercial vehicles and trucks,has proven to be a good means of providing equipped with CB radios. In the past, CBtravelers with traffic information both in and radios have been used primarily in motoristout of their vehicles. Traffic and roadway aid systems. A disabled or passing travelercondition reports have become standard broadcasts a request for assistance onprogramming items on many commercial channel 9. The channel is monitored 24radio stations. Commercial radio has the hours a day, 7 days a week by a police orbest potential of reaching the greatest volunteer organization, which dispatches aidnumber of commuters, since most of them to the stranded traveler. The primaryhave radios in the vehicles they drive to and advantage of a CB radio system is that itfrom work. permits twoway communication betweenThe primary disadvantage of using effective range of many CB radios iscommercial radio relates to the accuracy of approximately 32 kms (20 mi), dependingthe information. Traffic reports often are upon geographic conditions.transmitted only when normal schedulingpermits. This may cause considerable timedelays between when an incident occurs andwhen it is reported by the media. Often,many incidents go unreported or are clearedby the time they are reported on the radioand television. The accuracy of the One of the newer technologies forinformation provided by commercial radio is communicating with motorists in theira function of the time between the vehicles is through a video display terminalbroadcaster’s last communication with the (VDT) mounted in the dashboard. This isincident reporting source and the number of primarily a private sector industry, which hasincidents that have occurred and/or have not been used widely for informationbeen cleared during that time. distribution. These systems can be used toSome transportation agencies have made navigational information in one of twosubstantial efforts to improve coordination different formats. One approach is toCitizenBand Radioexcellent means of providing motorists withtwoway communications from their vehicle,CitizenBand (CB) radio has declined inthe traveler and the response agency. TheVisual Invehicle InformationTechnologiesVideo Display Terminalsprovide motorists with route guidance and 727present the driver navigation and route C VDTs may also add to the visual clutterguidance information in the form of maps or already inside the vehicle.equivalent displays. With these systems, aglobal picture of the traffic network can beprovided. Recommended routes can behighlighted on the video map display as well. As technology continues to improve, theIn another approach, simple symbolic signals HeadUp Display (HUD) has become(e.g., arrows, text instructions, or a another alternative to invehicle VDTs forcombination of both) guide the driver along presenting visual navigational and routea recommended route. Some prototype guidance information to motorists.systems use a variety of displays depending Although originally developed for theupon whether or not the vehicle is in motion, aviation industry, several automobilethe functions selected, and level of manufacturers are beginning to developinformational and navigational displays HUDs for presenting vehicle status andavailable. navigational information to drivers.Invehicle VDTs offer a number of A wide variety of options for displayingadvantages over available technologies in information may be available using HUDs.providing information to motorists while Through both icons and alphanumeric text,driving. These include the following: navigation and route guidance informationC Travel information is more readily field of view. This is expected to reduce theaccessible to the driver (providing need for visual scanning between twocontinuous access to current position, information sources (the inside instrumentrouting, and navigational information). panel and the outside environment), and theC Computergenerated navigational mapsand displays are logical extensions of However, as might be expected, numeroustraditional forms of providing drivers concerns exist regarding the safety andwith route guidance and navigation applicability of using HUDs in the drivinginformation. environment. Currently, most HUDsInformation can be displayed in text, provide drivers with only relatively simplegraphics, or both and tailored to the needs information, such as speed indications.and desires of each motorist.There are also limitations to invehicleVDTs. These include the following: The final type of information systemsC Drivers have to take their eyes off the drivers access offroadway, at their homes,roadway in order to receive the offices, shopping malls, etc. A major thrustinformation. of ITS development and implementationC Invehicle VDTs present the driver with hands of motorists and passengers so as tocomplex maps and diagrams that may improve departure time, mode choice, andcreate a potential to overload the driver route choice decisions. This emphasis haswith too much information. resulted in increased utilization of a numberHeadUp Displaysmay be projected directly into the driver’sassociated visual accommodation time.(23)under development and implementationOFFROADWAY INFORMATIONdiscussed in this module are those thatfocuses on putting more information into the 728of traditional information technologies, and displays accompanied by voice messages canhas yielded a number of new offroadway be used to provide users with information.information sources and several new Traffic reports can also be provided bydissemination technologies. Offroadway interrupting normal programming. Theinformation dissemination technologies primary disadvantage of using public accessinclude the following: television is that the information is availableC Television. outside the service area or not subscribing toC Telephones. access to the information.C Pagers. One freeway traffic management center inC Personal Data Assistants (PDAs). provide video and digital data directly toC Computers. video, a computerized map display, andC Kiosks. being implemented (which DMSs have beenTelevisionTelevision (together with radio) was one of signal. This is believed to reduce the needthe first offroadway motorist information for censoring the images that are beingtechnologies available to motorists. Even presented, since they are not available to thetoday, commercial television stations in most public at large.major cities provide traffic reports toviewers as part of their morning programs toindicate incident locations, traffic signalmalfunctions, and other traffic “hotspots.” As discussed earlier, telephone “hotlines”These locations are usually shown on some can allow both freeway and transit users totype of wallmounted or computergenerated obtain pretrip information via theirmap display. telephones at home or work, or in their carPublic access television is a means of charges to call the hotline. Information canovercoming many of the disadvantages be provided using recorded messages,associated with privately owned media synthesized voice messages, or humanstations. Many city governments are operators. A touchtone menu system canresponsible for franchising cable television be used to tailor information to a specificservice within the corporate limits of the route or travel corridor. Telephone calls arecity. As part of awarding the franchise to a also a means of developing realtimecompany, many city governments offer their rideshare matching systems that are beingown programming on one or more of these explored in several U.S. locations.dedicated channels. Public access channelscan be used by traffic management agenciesto broadcast continuous traffic informationduring peak hours. Either “crawl” messages A more recent technology now used to helpacross the bottom of the screen or map disseminate travel information to users awayonly to cable subscribers. Travelers livingthe particular cable company do not havethe U.S. has developed the capabilities totelevision signals. They broadcast live(12)current control and management actionsactivated). These signals are scrambled sothat only those with the appropriate softwareand hardware can properly receive theTelephonesif they are willing to pay for cellular airtimePagers 729from the vehicle are personal pagers. In disseminate information to travelers. AsBellevue, Washington (east of Seattle), with PDAs, twoway communicationsalphanumeric pagers provide their owners between the computer user and the travelwith hourly information regarding available information center can be established bycarpools looking for riders as well as current telephone modem or an RF communicationtraffic conditions on the Puget Soundarea link. This twoway flow of informationfreeway system. The Genesis project of allows the user to request information(24)the ITS Guidestar program in Minneapolis, specifically tailored to his or her needs (routeMinnesota and TRANSCOM in New Jersey planning, traffic information on specificalso utilize alphanumeric pager technology roadway links, transit bus schedule andto disseminate travel conditions in realtime status, etc.).to its owners. A key constraint of pagertechnology is that broadcast messages arelimited to a small number of characters.Consequently, efforts are underway to The last offroadway information dissemdetermine which information is most relevant ination device to be discussed is theto pager owners and how to format that information kiosk. Kiosks are videoinformation succinctly, but accurately. monitors mounted on a standalone cabinet, (25)Personal Data Assistants (PDAs)Personal Data Assistants (PDAs) are the serve as an important point of access tonext higher level of sophistication in off travel information networks in a variety ofroadway information dissemination public locations, including the following:technology. PDAs are computer productsthat have enough power to support C Hotels.applications such as time management andhandwriting recognition. By adding radio C Restaurants.frequency (RF) communications technology,PDAs allow users to interact directly with C Airports.travel information systems. This interactionallows users to obtain route planning C Gas stations (truck stops).assistance, traffic information broadcasts,and other pertinent information. Through C Retail establishments (shopping malls).keypad entry, the user can log on to theinformation system, request pertinent Kiosks are one type of informationinformation, and then log off. PDAs offer dissemination technology wherethe user increased communication and private/public partnerships are particularlyinformation transmission/receiving power relevant. For instance, some agencies areover alphanumeric pagers. However, they looking to the private sector (throughare more complex to use and expensive to advertising revenue) to help defray thepurchase. operating and maintenance costs of these (25)Computers (Internet)Personal computers, both desktop and where they can draw attention and reachlaptop/notebook, can also be used to their intended market.Kiosksin a wall, or on a countertop. They mayhave input devices such as keypads, trackballs, or touchscreen displays. Kiosks cansystems. Proper kiosk placement is(26, 27)also a critical issue. Many kiosks are notwell utilized because they are not located(27) 7307.4 LESSONS LEARNEDNTCIP STANDARDSEquipment compatibility, especially withrespect to communications, has long been aproblem for many transportation agenciesoperating various components of freewaymanagement systems. Incompatibilitiesbetween DMS and HAR hardware fromdifferent vendors have required the agencyto have separate systems to communicatewith each type of DMS or HAR. This hasmade it difficult to operate the equipmentefficiently and in an integrated manner.In response to these and other problems, aNational Transportation CommunicationsInterface Protocol (NTCIP) is underdevelopment to reduce the difficultiesassociated with developing an integratedfreeway management system. Theseprotocols establish standard communicationslinkages between various types of hardwareand software used for traffic managementpurposes. This ultimately reduces the needfor an agency to select and stay with aparticular vendor or model of equipment.In the information dissemination arena,standards have been proposed, or are underdevelopment, for DMS and for HAR.Standards for other equipment are likely toemerge as the need arises. Partners arestrongly encouraged to utilize NTCIPstandards where possible.INFORMATION MESSAGE DESIGNAlthough traditionally a concern associatedwith public agency information disseminationmechanisms such as DMS and HAR, theproper design and packaging of theinformation being disseminated is critical tosuccessfully meeting the goals and objectivesfor all components of an informationdissemination subsystem. Evidence alreadyexists on some of the newer ATIStechnologies that improper message designshave an adverse impact upon customer (i.e.,motorist) interpretation of the worth andusefulness of these technologies.(29)Without proper attention to packaging, theintended audience may not be able toadequately perceive, interpret, and respondto the information. The following factorsare critical to proper message design:C Message load.C Message length.C Message format.Message load refers to the quantity ofinformation that is included in a givenmessage. Message load is an importantconsideration for DMS operations, becausethe driver must attend to many differenttasks at the same time, while trying to readand comprehend a message. If the messagepresents too much information, messageoverload may occur. Some transportationagencies have reported traffic slowing downand other adverse operational problems inthe vicinity of DMSs when messages are toolong. (1)Message length refers to the number ofwords or characters that are displayed onone or more lines of a sign or sequence.Obviously, message length and load arerelated. However, message length and howthe message is formatted, or “chunked,”both affect message load.Message formatting is a term that refers tothe arrangement of message elements (wordsor lines) on an information disseminationdevice (e.g., a sign) to form a message. Useof abbreviations also relates to messageformatting. Placement of message elementson the wrong line or in the wrong sequence 731will result in confusion and increased large extent by a regular sign maintenancemessage reading and comprehension times. (pixel lens cleaning, light bulb replacement)program.The completed and detailed set of guidelinesregarding message design from which theseparagraphs were drawn are availableelsewhere. Another DMSspecific issue is what to do (2)ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUESCONCERNING DMSsBecause they are located outdoors next to dissemination devices. One perspective isthe freeway, the effectiveness of DMSs as an that some type of information such asinformation source is also affected by current time and temperature, an agencyenvironmental factors. Two factors that can slogan, etc., should be provided at all times.be significant are sun position and Proponents argue that this indicates toweathering effects. motorists that the devices are working. TheSun PositionBoth sunlight falling directly upon the face thought argue that, according to humanof a DMS and sunlight located directly factors principles, trivial or nontrafficbehind the DMS adversely affect a driver’s specific information should be avoided soability to see the message. Sign positions that the devices do not lose credibility withwith the rear surfaces oriented west the travelers.southwest and eastnortheast shouldtherefore be avoided if possible. The westsouthwest orientation is more problematic,however, because the setting sun tends to bemore intense than the rising sun.(1)WeatheringBecause of their proximity to freeway travellanes, road grime can be a problem forcertain DMSs, and significantly reduce thedistances at which they are legible.Consequently, DMS manufacturers oftenplace clear Lexan covers over the DMS faceto protect the sign from road grime andother environmental effects. One studysuggests that legibility distances of a fixedgrid fiberoptic DMS (a freeway lane controlsignal without a Lexan cover) may bereduced by as much as 25 percent after 18months in the field. It appears that these (29)losses in legibility can be minimized to a“ATREST” DISPLAY CONDITIONSwith the signs when there is nothing specialto report to travelers. There are generallytwo schools of thought regarding wheninformation should be provided in(2)other perspective is to display informationonly when there is something new to telltravelers. Proponents of this school of7.5 EXAMPLE OF ANINFORMATIONDISSEMINATION SYSTEM:TRANSCOMORGANIZATIONTRANSCOM (Transportation OperationsCoordinating Committee) is a consortium of14 transportation and public safety agenciesin the New York, New Jersey, andConnecticut area whose goal is to provide acooperative, coordinated approach toregional traffic management. TRANSCOMis funded, staffed, and governed by itsmember agencies. It has an OperationsInformation Center (OIC) that is staffed 24hours per day, 7 days per week.TRANSCOM shares incident information via 732alphanumeric pager, phone, and fax to more dissemination and incident response in thethan 200 highway and transit facilities, police region. These include the following:agencies, and radio traffic services. It alsoserves as a forum for incident and special C Regionwide initiatives for coordinatedevent management planning, construction deployment and operation of VMSs,coordination, and for shared testing and HAR, and enhanced traffic monitoringimplementation of regional traffic and via CCTV.transportation management technologies.The planning process for TRANSCOM system at the intersection of the Newbegan at the end of 1984. TRANSCOM Jersey Turnpike and Garden Statebegan operations in 1986. Originally, the Parkway, which will focus on alternativePort Authority of New York envisioned routing for New Jersey transit buses.TRANSCOM as a coordinating mechanismto facilitate traffic flow and operations at the C Expansion of traffic monitoring alongHudson River crossings. However, the I287 Tappan Zee Bridge corridor.TRANSCOM’s focus quickly expanded to C Initiation of the TRANSMITall traffic facilities in the region. (TRANSCOM’s System for MonitoringTRANSCOM is managed by a steering This project uses vehicles withcommittee made up of senior and midlevel transponders on a highway systemmanagers from each agency. This committee equipped with readers/antennas.directs the technical and operational focus ofTRANSCOM. Meanwhile, an executive TRANSCOM receives information regardingcommittee consisting of the chief executive incidents and transit facility conditions fromofficer from each agency decides major all over the area. The OIC is normallypolicies pertaining to TRANSCOM. staffed with two operators who receive,Although TRANSCOM is a public sector related information. The information isinformation dissemination example, it is relayed to the agencies affected by theconsidering moving towards a public/private incident via alphanumeric pagers, facsimilepartnership. Public/private partnerships are machines, and voice communications. Thisa much more appropriate example of what is information is then disseminated by thelikely to occur in the future. various agencies according to theirOPERATIONSThe TRANSCOM OIC receives information technologies for certain agencies.regarding incidents and transit facilities fromall over the metropolitan area. The TRANSCOM operations are fully funded byoperations personnel in the OIC are its member agencies. This funding consistsemployees of one of the member agencies of both monetary contributions and inkindand generally have some background in services such as providing operators to staffdispatch, operations, or media reporting. the OIC.The TRANSCOM partnership has allowedseveral projects to be developed andimplemented to facilitate informationC An enhanced traffic advisory/diversionIncidents and Traffic) Operational Test.collate, and disseminate transportationcapabilities. In some instances,TRANSCOM has been granted authority tooperate the information dissemination (9) 733FUTURE ACTIVITIESThe executive and steering committees are is an example of this commitment to futurelooking at a number of issues relating to operations. TRANSCOM is participatingfuture TRANSCOM operations. with other agencies in the development of aTRANSCOM will continue to pursue computerized Information Exchangeresearch and testing of advanced Network (IEN) to automate the informationtechnologies to help the region more retrieval and dissemination process.effectively manage travel in the congestednortheast corridor. The TRANSMIT systemcommunication for work purposesWorkplace communication is the exchange of information between employees in a work environment. This includes facetoface conversations, emails, chat messages, videoconferencing, phone calls, and other methods used to convey information in the workplace.Communication, communication, communication. We all know it’s important, but communication skills can be challenging to develop and implement at work. The rise of remote and hybrid work hasn’t made it any easier, either. Yet, effective communication at work can be transformative for individuals, teams, and businesses. We’re here to show you why communication is important in the workplace and how to start building your and your team’s communication skills today. Why is effective communication important in the workplace?Communication in the workplace is important because it boosts employee morale, engagement, productivity, and satisfaction. Communication is also key for better team collaboration and cooperation. Ultimately, effective workplace communication helps drive better results for individuals, teams, and organizations. To take it a step further, specifically as a manager, building good communication skills has profound short and longterm benefits for your organization. An effective communicator is able to motivate their team to get more done with better results and fewer misunderstandings. And who doesn’t want fewer misunderstandings?All of these things can contribute to the company’s success — and to your own personal success as a leader.7 common types of communication in the workplaceNot all work communication is made equal. We’ve all had the experience of sitting through a boring, lengthy meeting with the thought, “This should have been an email.” Different communication channels are ideal for different types of communication. Depending on the type of information being conveyed, those different channels can enhance — or detract — from how it is received. An effective communicator will develop different skills and tools to match the type of communication needed.1. Leadership communication Leaders often deliver oneway communications to their teams. The goal may be to inform or update, such as a memo about a new company policy or a change in direction. Leaders also often communicate to persuade, encourage, and inspire commitment. They often communicate through stories more than data.2. Upward communication Managers (and team members) often have to communicate with their own managers and with other leaders who are not in their direct chain of command. These may take the form of memos/emails, reports, or a slot in a standing meeting. Regardless of the format, these types of communications should be considered more formal. 3. Updates Since they’re brief by nature, updates often fall short of being a type of strong communication. Use a visual tracker or dashboard to carry the load, and save your verbal or written commentary for drawing the audience’s attention to what is most important — typically, what requires action or further involvement from them. This might include surprises, obstacles, and potential risks, as well as wins.4. PresentationsThese formal communication events tend to receive the lion’s share of attention, for good reason. Presentations are communication tools that are typically aimed at a larger audience with higher stakes. They have objectives like informing, influencing, and persuading. In addition, many people fear public speaking, and thanks to TED and other series, we have a high expectation for entertainment as well as insight. 5. Meetings Meetings, whether large or small, are a critical part of a workplace’s internal communication strategy. They’re also one of the least understood and most overused types of communication. Effective meetings build synergy between teams and quickly communicate information that would have a high potential to be misunderstood in another format (like email). The best meetings are highly collaborative and leave participants feeling energized, not drained.6. Customer communications Communicating with customers can run the entire gamut discussed above, from oneoffs to facetoface, virtual, spoken, or written, formal to ad hoc. In general, all of the considerations of communication among employees go double for customers. Be deliberate and plan your messages to provide what your customer needs, in the way they prefer, and create a positive impression for the company and the product.7. Informal interactions Informal communications include the emails and chats you engage in all day: making requests, asking for information, responding to requests, and giving or receiving support and guidance. In addition to moving the work of the organization forward, these informal communications have secondary objectives of forming social connections, building culture, establishing trust, and finding common ground.woman communicating with male coworker at desk (1) The benefits of good communication in the workplaceWhen employees are directly involved in work products and initiatives, it helps to foster a sense of ownership in the company’s future. It also makes them want to work to improve things like the company’s profitability, customer satisfaction, and brand.Let’s take a look at some ways that building your communication skills cascades down through your organization — and directly impacts its bottom line.8 reasons to work on your communication skills1. Better engagementBetter communication results in greater employee engagement, which is a key metric for employee productivity and potential retention. It reinforces that your people are key contributors and people who the company values for their unique skills and experience. In other words, their contribution — and input — truly make a difference. 2. Increased moraleTeam members with low job satisfaction take more time off of work, are less productive when inoffice, and often negatively impact the productivity of other employees when they are present. However, when an employee has an understanding of the work that they have to do and how it connects to the overall success of the team, they bring more energy and pride to their work. 3. Improved productivityBetter communication techniques help employees to better comprehend their roles, which in turn helps employees perform their assigned duties better. Resources and time can be saved through these techniques, therefore getting more work done and reducing stress.4. Reduced churnFrom customer support representatives to senior technical staff, experience equals value to customers and to the company. And no organization wants to waste the huge costs of recruiting and training good employees by having them leave quickly. As a key factor in employee satisfaction and engagement, communication adds value to the organization by reducing the turnover of skilled and seasoned staff members. 5. Greater loyaltyLongerterm, keeping employees for many years can add strength to the company and impact the bottom line. Many jobs require years of experience before an employee has sufficient expertise to drive innovation, solve critical problems, and lead others. How an employee feels toward the company — based on how they feel they are treated and valued as individuals — impacts how loyal they will be.6. Better collaborationMost companies today use technologies that don’t require team members to be in the same room, the same building, or even the same country. This shift presents new communication challenges, which means managers can facilitate collaboration by helping groups communicate effectively when using the latest technologies. 7. Fewer workplace conflictsMany conflicts originate with miscommunication. Poor communication can create negative relationships or even toxic or hostile work environments. Building clear communication can improve company culture and prevent misunderstandings between managers and employees. This includes honing and refining communication styles that focus on listening to others, having empathy, and considering individual differences. 8. Greater motivationPsychologists have found that unless people understand the “why” of a concept, they will be less likely to understand or remember it. The same goes for many aspects of people’s work lives. As a manager, one key communication skill is hearing the “why” and following up with a “because.” This approach will help you motivate employees.coworkers meeting communicating and shaking hands in an office (1)8 ways to develop communication skills at workNow that you understand the importance of good communication at work, you need to know how to develop those skills. Remember: effective communication is about active listening — while it may seem counterintuitive, a “listenerfirst” approach will often help you structure the delivery of your message. Here are 8 more tips for developing your communication skills.1. Think it throughThere are many communications frameworks, but if you want to improve your communication skills, start by getting in the habit of thinking through these 5 questions for any communication you create:Why are you communicating?Who is the receiver, audience, or participant? What is your goal or objective? What do you want the recipient to do as a result of the communication? What format will best accomplish your goal? If you struggle to answer these five questions, you should spend some additional time thinking about how and why you’re communicating. Then, test your understanding with coworkers or your manager.  2. Give it timePlan what you want to say and review your communication to make sure it’s actually doing the job you need it to. For written communications, especially, this means: revise, revise, revise. Remember, great communication might seem effortless, but it rarely is.3. Make it easyWorkplace communication almost always has a larger goal. People are busy. Don’t make them work too hard to understand what you are saying and what you need them to do. State your objective and main point from the beginning of a presentation or written communication so that your audience knows where you’re going. Then fill in the details.4. SimplifyWhile you don’t want to condescend or “dumb it down,” in everyday work communications, be mindful of not making the other party work too hard to understand. Find a clear, simple phrasing to encapsulate your point. Repeat it at the beginning, middle, and end, and consider using a simple visual or metaphor to make your point clear and memorable.5. Experiment and diversifyWork on developing different tactics for different communication needs. Focus on experimenting with one aspect of your communication at a time. For example, spend a week paying extra attention to how you structure informal communications. Then spend a week trying different structures for formal meetings or updates.6. Practice and reflectBe deliberate about reflecting on what goes well and what doesn’t in your daytoday communications. Maybe an email to your manager didn’t go well. Can you see how it might have been misinterpreted? What would you do differently next time? Similarly, if a conversation with a coworker didn’t yield the expected results, try to identify whether you clearly communicated what you needed. 7. Consider the full packageConsider recording yourself through a few interactions to gain insight into what your full package is communicating in your daily interactions with your team. Do you make eye contact? Is your facial expression relaxed and confident, or tense? How’s your body language? Do you leave time for questions and clarification? 8. Seek feedbackAsk a few trusted coworkers and your manager to rate your communication skills. Start by asking them to rate (i.e., on a scale of 110) your written and spoken communication separately. Then ask these 3 questions: What one thing should I start doing to communicate better with you?What one thing should I stop doing in my communications with you?What one area or skill should I work on to improve how I communicate in this organization?woman in yellow and headphones smiling on virtual call (1)How to improve communication when working remotelyCommunicating well is even more important for leaders and managers during remote work. Doing it well can help build trust and connection with your team and avoid some of the frustrations that come from miscommunication. Here are a few areas to consider to improve remote communication:1. Clarify expectations State expectations upfront and repeat them at the end of a communication. Even better, ask the other person to restate their understanding of your expectations. 2. Engage in 2way flow Being remote can make it easier for employees to check out and disengage. Be deliberate and creative about giving others a role in communication. Ask questions, use polling and ranking tools, and solicit responses in the form of emojis, gifs, or oneword descriptors.  3. Remember the power of inperson A lot can be misinterpreted in the flat space of text without additional cues like tone of voice and facial expression. Don’t default to communicating solely through text or chat. A wellcrafted team Zoom call or inperson meeting can establish a better connection and shared understanding, giving others a chance to surface areas of misalignment.4. Focus on quality People may feel protective of their time when working remotely, so make sure that live events are wellthoughtout. Send agendas, meeting objectives, or background reading ahead of time to help people prepare to have productive conversations.5. Create an informal space Assuming good intentions and a sharing culture are both foundational for effective daytoday communication at work. That said, they’re hard to build and maintain without opportunities for casual interaction like happy hours or nonwork Slack channels. 6. Show you care You don’t have to spend a lot of time checking in with people and asking about their personal lives. But, now more than ever, it’s worth reminding yourself that the recipients of your communications are real people who have their own challenges, distractions, hopes, and fears. Before getting on a video call or firing off an email, try picturing that person on the other end.Start communicating better todayEvery year communication tops the list of skills in demand by employers. There's a reason. Communication is what makes our professional and personal relationships go smoothly. It's how we show care, catalyze change, and get things done. Business coaching for your team and yourself can help with this skill.That's reason enough to improve — and keep improving — these important skills. Luckily, we can all learn to communicate better.1. WorkplaceCommunicafion—is the proces of exchonsinginformation ond ideos, both veruoal(yond non—verbally befiaeen oneperson or group ond onother personor group within on orgoniza±ion. Ifincludes emoåls, videoconferencing,text messogest notes, calls, etc.messages distributed byEmailelectronic means from one computeruser to one or more recipients via anetwork.Video conferencing is a technologythat allows users in differentlocations to hold face —to—facemeetings without having to move toa single location together.Text messages —communication sentmobile phone.electronicanand received byNotes— a short informal letter orwritten message.Calls— an instance of speaking to someoneon the phone or attempting to contactsomeone by phone.THINGS TO CONSIDER INCOMMUNICATING IN THE WORKPLACE:l. PURPOSEa) Am I writing to create a record, to request/provide information,or to persuade?b) What am I trying to say?THINGS TO CONSIDER INCOMMUNICATING IN THE WORKPLACE:2. AUDIENCEa) Who will read what I have written?b) What are their job titles and/or areas of responsibility?c) What do they already know about the specific situation?d) Why do they need this information?e) What do I want them to do as a result of receiving it?f) What factors might influence their response?2. AUDIENCEa) Who will read what I have written?b) What are their job titles and/or areas of responsibility?c) What do they already know about the specific situation?d) Why do they need this information?e) What do I want them to do as a result of receiving it?f) What factors might influence their response?BROAD CATEGORIES OF WORKPLACECOMMUNICATIONUPWARD COMMUNICATION— from your position to an audience above you in the job hierarchyExample: a response to a letter from your managerB) LATERAL COMMUNICATION— between you and an audience within your level of hierarchyExample: a phone call to/ from a co—worker you are collaboratingWithD DOWNWARD COMMUNICATION— from your position to an audience below you in the job hierarchyExample: an oral reminder to a traineeD) OUTWARD COMMUNICATION—between you and a company that you do business With or anaudience outside your workplaceExample: a letter of inquiry addressed to a supplier regarding adelivery to your office3. TONE it will set how your target audience will accept whatyou are trying to say. you do not have to sound tough, demanding, orcondescending in your discourse especially insensitive subjects or issuesWorkplace communication will fail the ethicstest if it is Corrupted by any of thetactics (Searles, 2014):1 . Suppression of information.2. Falsification or fabrication.3. Overstatement of understatement.4. Selective misquoting.5. Subjective wording.6. Conflict of interest.7. Withholding information.8. Plagiarism2. Business Letters"Business writing refers to memorandums,proposals, emails, and other forms of writiin organizations to communicate with internal andexternal audiences. Business writing is a type ofprofessional communication. Also known asbusiness communication and professional writingWriting business correspondence like letters andmemos is a skill or potential that must be developedand possess by a person regardless by his work,profession, or specialization (Mosura, et al., 199)."PARTS OF A BUSINESS LETTER1. HEADING includes the return address and the date on the last line.2. INSIDE ADDRESS/RECIPIENT' S ADDRESS contains the name to which the letter is written and addressed3.SALUTATIONis the greeting part that is written in a polite and courteousmanner followed by a comma (t) or a colon (:)Mr. (name),Sir (name).Dear Sir (narne2My dear (name).Mrs (name),4. BODY OF THE LETTER contains the main purpose of the letter, the very reason forwriting. It is very important that the body of the letter be writtenin a straightforward, simple, and coherent manner.Three Parts•Introduction•Middle Section•Conclusion5. Complimentary Closing is the polite yet businesslike ending of the letter. This ends with acomma6. SIGNATURE BLOCK the name of the sender is written on the first line, then his/herposition on the next line. It is expected that the sender will put his/h rsignature above his/her name.Formats of a business letter1. BLOCKPositions all the parts of the letter to the left,single space and justified.2. MODIFIED BLOCKparfs of the letter are tabbed on the left,Sigle space and justified except the heading andthe closing which are tabbed on the Center.3.SEM1BLOCKThe paragraph are indented instead ofplacing them on the left. Heading is onthe center, and the date cam be placed inthe right side , three spaces fter theheading. The recipient' s address is on theleft, and the closing on the right.Frequently WrittenBusiness Letter4. Letter of Peques{ 26—a letter which is writtenWhen youneedcertaininformation,permission,favour, service or any othermatter which requires apolite and humble request2. Letter of Inquiry 27—asks someone for specificinformation. In other cases,such as a request forspecific information on aproduct, the recipient mayor may not be as motivatedto respond quickly.3. Letter of Order 28documentthat—aconfirms the details ofa purchase of goods orservices from one partyto another.4. Letter ofAcknowledgement—Its objective is to letthe reader know thatitems requested in a priorcommunication, usually aninquiry or an order letter,have been received.5. Letter of Complain{—It is normally writtento deal With a problemsituation whenotherattempts (i .e.phonecontacts, e—mails, etc.)have failed to rectifythe situation.6. Letter of Adjustmen{—a response to a writtencomplaint. The objectiveis to inform the readerthat their complaint hasbeen received.3. MEMOSA memo has a header that clearly indicates whosent it and who the intended recipients are. Payparticular attention to the title of the individual(s) inthis section. Date and subject lines are also present,followed by a message that contains a declaration, adiscussion, and a surnrnary.Five Tips for Effecfive Business Memosl. Audience OrientationAn acronym or abbreviation that is knownto management may not be known by allthe employees of the organization. Thegoal is clear and concise communication atall levels with no ambiguity.2 Professional, Formal ToneMemos are often announcements, and the person sending thememo speaks for a part or all of the organization. While it maycontain a request for feedback, the announcement itself islinear, from the organization to the employees.3.Subject EmphasisThe subject is normally declared in the subject line andhould be clear and concise.Birect FormatSome written business communication allows for a choicebetween direct and indirect formats, but memorandums arealways direct. The purpose is clearly announced.5. ObjectivityMemos are a place for just the facts, and should havean objective tone without personal bias, preference, orinterest on display. Avoid subjectivity.Importance of Good Communicationat the VorkplaceCommunicafion critical toeslabliahing and maintaining qualilyworking relationships in organizations.Five important reasons include:1. InnovationWhen employees have theopportunity to express theirideas openly, they are morelikely to present their ideaswithout fear of ridicule orretaliation.2. GrowthCommunication can be seeninternally andbyexternally.associating yourself internally andby establishing strong communicationlines, you ensure the consistency ofthe externally delivered message.3. Effective CommunicationEffective communication not onlytalks to people, but give them theopportunity to talk to each other.Strong communication channels areessential.4.Team BuildingCreating effective teamsrequires communication andmutual cooperation. This willincrease morale and employeesatisfaction.MODULE 7 COMMUNICATION FOR WORK PURPOSESBASICS OF WRITINGWriting is an essential skill. All jobs call for writing, from application letters to memos, emails, tweets, text blogs, websites, proposals, and reports. Through writing, communication is possible among or between employees, managers, stakeholders, clients, and agencies. Employees should be able to write clearly to be able to do the other requisites of the job. Writing keeps business moving (Searles, 2014; Kolin, 2015).Workplace writing occurs for a definite purpose, and it is intended for a particular audience. It is therefore, important that purpose and audience be seriously considered to make sure that the tone you adopt is appropriate for the context and the kind of writing expected of you.1. Purpose  . Onthejob writings are usually done for at least one of three reasons: (a) to create/build a record, (b) to request or provide information, and (c) to persuade. As a writer, once you have determined your purpose, the next question to ask yourself is, “What am I going to SAY?” Now, think of the message (or facts and ideas) you want to impart to the reader to achieve your purpose. You may adopt the five W’s that journalists use in structuring the opening sentence of news stories: Who, What, Where, When, and Why. This will be a fitting start of your onthejob writing. 2. Reader/Audience  . Ask yourself these questions:a. Who am I writing to? An individual or a group of persons?b. What do they know about this topic?c. What are their job titles and areas of responsibility?In identifying your audience, remember that the workplace has a communicationnetwork pattern of contact created by the flow of messages among communicators: (a) upward, (b) lateral/horizontal, (c) downward, and (d) outward (Searles, 2014; Adler, Elmhorst, & Lucas, 2013).Upward Communication. The written materials are sent by subordinates to their superiors. Upward communication can convey varied types of messages: a. What subordinates are doing: “We will have that job done by closing time.”b. Unsolved work problems: “We are still figuring out how the old furniture will fit in our new office.”c. Suggestions for improvement: “I think we should ask the opinion of an interior designer.”d. How subordinates feel about each other and the job: “I think Eve, our new secretary, is having problems with her responsibilities.”e. Reply to an inquiry from a supervisorThese messages can benefit both the subordinates and the superiors because the most satisfied employees are the most productive; however, these messages are not easy to makebecause being frank with the boss can be risky, particularly if the boss may not like or is not ready to hear problems and suggestions.Lateral (Horizontal) Communication. The materials are sent to people who are of equal level or status; that is, between members of the same division or department of an organization.The communication serves the following purposes:a. Task coordinationb. Problemsolvingc. Sharing informationd. Building rapportDownward Communication. This is the kind of communication sent by superiors to their subordinates. Downward communication is very important because giving instructions is inevitable. Examples are:a. Job instructionsb. Job rationalec. FeedbackOutward Communication. This is intended for workers outside the workplace. An example isa letter to the comptroller of a company regarding financial matters.You need to consider the differences in reader category that are created by the flow of communication because they affect your communication in many ways, particularly format. For internal communication (the first three categories), the memorandum is traditionally the preferred medium, but it is now almost totally taken by email. For outward communication (withclients, customers, or the public in general), the standard business letter still prevails although it is now sent by email or by fax machine (Searles, 2014).3. Tone  . Tone expresses your attitude toward a person or thing (whether you agree or disagree, likeor dislike, bias or accept). It is how you regard or consider the person. Some authors call this “you attitude,” “consideration,” or “readercentered.” Tone may be professional or formal and impersonal, like in a scientific report, or informal and personal, like in a letter to a friend or in a howtodoarticle.Tone is shown in how you treat another person, which is something similar to the Golden Rule: “You do to others what you like others do to you.” Tone of writing is most important in occupational writing because a wrong tone in your letter may cost you a customer. This tone or consideration for others is best achieved by doing the following:Focusing on the Reader (“ReaderOriented” or “YouAttitude”). You, the writer, should think of the reader—his needs, his wants, his expectations. Your readers are real people; you have to make them feel that you are writing to them as individuals. Put them in the forefront of your letter. Example:a. Poor: “We now have a Walkup Window, open to serve you from 9 am to 4 pm every Wednesday.”b. Better (Focus on “you”): “You can now take care of your banking needs at our new Walkup Window, open to serve you from 9 am to 4pm every Wednesday.”    Choosing Positive and Pleasant Ideasa. Negative: “She is a fault finder.” Positive: “She is concerned with details.”b. Negative: “The glass is halfempty.” Positive: “The glass is halffull.”    Focusing on What to Be Done to Solve the Problem. Not on What Not to Be Donea. Negative: “It is impossible to open an account for you today.”b. Positive: “As soon as your signature card reaches us today, we can gladly open an account for you.”    Using the Passive Form of the Verb to Soften the Impact of Unpleasant, Negative, or Controversial Newsa. Poor: “Today, the union leader declared a general strike.”b. Better: “A general strike was declared today.”(That a strike was declared is the important thing; WHO declared it is unimportant. This tonesaves the doer from any possible reprimand or censure).MINUTES OF THE MEETINGMinutes are a summary of what happened at a meeting. They show the information shared, thediscussion  made  (clear,  accurate,  and  objective), and  decisions  reached  during  the  meeting.  Sincebusiness meetings have become important communication in business and the industry, a record of theirminutes is always filed. Minutes, which are considered official, permanent records, are regarded as legaldocuments (Kolin, 2015; Dagdag, Ranin, Roxas, Perez, & Buluran, 2011).The advent of technology has made possible video conferencing with Skype; this allows groupsof individuals in the world of work to meet. Just like in any other business meetings, all participants ofthe video conference have to prepare for it, and a record of its minutes needs to be filed too.Minutes may be formal or informal depending on the type of meeting. Formal minutes are longbecause  all  information is recorded  in  detail,  including  the  exact words  of  motions,  amendments,resolutions, and numbers of votes. Informal minutes are shorter since discussions are just summarized.Whether they are formal or informal, however, minutes have the same basic parts (Kolin, 2015, p.109;Dagdag, et.al., 2011).1. Day, time, and place of the meeting2. Name of the group holding the meeting3. Name of presiding officer or chair4. Names of present and absent members5. Approval or amendment of minutes of the previous meeting6. For each major point, what was done is indicated.a. What was discussed, suggested, or proposedb. What was decided and the votes, including abstentionsc. What was continued or tabled for further study or for another meetingd. What time the meeting was officially closed7. Secretary’s signatureGUIDELINES IN PREPARING THE MINUTESAs official company document and evidence in court litigations, minutes of the meetings shouldbe prepared with care.1. All motions and resolutions are recorded, and proponents are identified by name.2. Seconded motions are also noted and recorded although the ones who seconded them need notbe identified.3. Results of seconded motions must be recorded and, whether approved or rejected, should beindicated in the minutes.4. Headings are used to mark report sections. Titles should be all capital letters.5. Minutes of the previous meeting should also be taken up.6. Do not report/write verbatim what are said. Summarize.7. Lengthy discussions, debates, and reports given should be summarized.8. The past tense is used.MEMORANDUM (MEMO)Memo short for memorandum, is of Latin origin, which means “something to be remembered.”This meaning explains the function of memos—to record information of immediate importance andinterests.A memo is usually written for internal or inhouse communication. It is usually short, direct tothe point, clearly stating what must be done or not done. They provide data for various functions, suchas the following (Kolin, 2015):1. Making announcements;2. Giving instructions;3. Clarifying a policy, procedure, or issue;4. Changing a policy or procedure;5. Alerting staff to a problem;6. Sending recommendations;7. Providing legal records;8. Calling a meeting; and9. Reminding employees of corporate, history, policy, and procedure.MEMO PROTOCOLJust like any other business correspondence, the memo carries the company name and image. Itshould, therefore, follow the company’s accepted ways in which inhouse communication is formatted,organized, written, and routed. Be guided by these four guidelines (WikipediaA Memorandum, 2018):1. Be timely  . Do not wait for the day of the event before your announcement.2. Be professional  . Although a memo is an inhouse correspondence, it should still be well crafted,factually accurate, and free of grammar lapses and faulty writing mechanics.3. Be tactfu  l. Politeness and diplomacy are important qualities of any business correspondence.4. Send memo to the right person  . In business, a memo is typically for internal communication;hence, it could also be considered as an upward communication through which any complaints,issues, opinions, views and suggestions are sent.MEMO FORMAT AND PARTSMemos vary in format and the way they are sent. Whatever the format, they should have thestandard parts. The memo has basically two parts: HEADER or identifying information and MESSAGE,aside from the word MEMO or MEMORANDUM on top of the paper (Searles, 2014; Kolin, 2015).1. Header  , which includes four parts as shown in the box:(If a memo is sent in the body of the email, you do not need to include the header parts; they areautomatically included in the email’s heading.)2. Message  , which follows the OrientationInformation – Action format.a. Orientation (Opening Paragraph): What is your purpose or reason for writing?b. Information: What do you want to tell or convey to the reader?c. Action: What step or course of action do you intend to take? LETTER OF REQUESTBusiness letters are typically used for external communication—messages from one company toanother, from a company to a client or to a supplier. Although email is now often used, countless lettersare still written for various reasons. One of them is the letter of request.Request letters are written when a person seeks help of any kind from someone else. Studentslike you may write a request letter when you need information for any assigned writing project, such asreport, research, or article, or when you ask for clarification or for favors (Kolin, 2015). Kolin gives thefollowing guidelines in writing a request letter.1. Direct/address your letter to the right person.2. State who you are and your work title and why you are writing.MEMORANDUMTO: Name and job title of receiver (If more than one, arrange names in order of job                 status.)FROM: Sender’s name (You may use first name depending on your familiarity with the               receiver.)DATE: Full calendar date (April 10, 2018)SUBJECT: Indicate the purpose. This serves as the title of your memo; it summarizes the               message.(Good Samples): Safety in Cleaning Brake Machines● Ways to Increase Meralco’s Social Responsibilities●Poor or vague/not clear samples: Cleaning Difficulties● Meralco’s Social Responsibilities●(Example: an employee who needs information for a report, an article, a speech, or who asks for donations)“I am Julian J. Montes, an assistant researcher of the Marketing Department of SCC University ofSac Pablo City. I am writing a report on “Ecommerce Strategies for Laguna de Bay. My colleagueshave talked highly of your firm, Creative Marketing Associates.”3. Indicate  your  reason  for  requesting  the  information  (in  this  case,  requesting  their  help).  Ifapplicable, you may cite the one who suggested that you write and ask for help.“With your vast experience in developing websites and apps to promote regional businesses andtourism, I  would  be  mush  indebted  if  you  answer  these  three  questions  that  are  vital  to  myresearch.”4. State  your  questions  briefly  and  clearly.  You  may  list  and  number  them.  Make  your  requestquestions clear and easy to answer, so no further exchange of questions and answers is necessary.5. Indicate exactly when you need the information, but allow sufficient time.6. Offer to forward a copy of your report, article, or paper in gratitude for the anticipated help.7. Thanks the reader for helping.SHORT REPORTA short report, which may be either oral or written in the report form of a memo or a letterattached to an email or simply sent in the body of an email, consists of significant information of aparticular topic that is meant to inform a reader. It is “an organized presentation of relevant data on anytopicmoney, travel, time, technology, personnel, service equipment, weather, the environment—that acompany or agency deals with in running the business” (Kolin, 2015, p.554).The short report, which must also contain a title that defines its content, generally consists of asummary of the report, a brief background, a defined purpose, and a conclusion. Writing a report is notan easy task because there are factors that you need to consider—the reliability of a source and thestructure  of  the  report,  as  well  as  its  continuing  to  be  informative  to  a  reader  while  still  beingunderstandable.TYPES OF SHORT REPORTSShort reports abound, but this chapter will just dwell on progress report, incident report, andproject proposal. PROGRESS REPORTA progress report, whose purpose is to ensure the successful completion of the task or projectwithin  the  specified  time,  informs  the  reader  (who  is  usually  in  the  management  sector  of  theorganization) about the status of an ongoing project or task—how much had been done, is being done,and will be done by a particular date (Kolin, 2015; SmithWorthington Jefferson, 2011). If correctlyprepared and submitted on time, progress reports are very important in helping the management makenecessary adjustments to meet deadlines, avoid crises, and prevent unnecessary expenses.The report generally includes these components (Searles, 2014; Kolin, 2016). 1. Introduction  : This is the background of the project where the project is identified, its objectives are reviewed, and the reader, is informed about any development since the previous progress report.2. Work  completed  :  It  is  the  summary  of  accomplishment  to  date,  which  is  organizedchronologically if the report covers one major task, or by classification of task if it deals withmore than one related project.3. Work remaining  : It gives a summary of all uncompleted tasks, emphasizing what is expected tobe accomplished first.4. Problems  :  This part, which  identifies any delays, cost overruns,  or  any  other  unanticipated difficulties, may be omitted if all is well or no problem causes any harmful effect.5. Conclusions  : This part summarizes the status of the project and provides recommendations tosolve major problems.INCIDENT REPORTAn incident report, which deals with the unexpected that brings harm to people and property,like fire, vehicular accidents, physical injury, lawenforcement offense, environmental danger, machinebreakdown, computer virus, delivery delay, cost overrun, or production breakdown, is written either bythe person involved in the incident or by a person in charge of the area where it took place to explain thecircumstances behind the troublesome occurrence.Such report, needed to fulfil government regulations to guard against unlawful behaviour, mayserve as a document for legal purposes. The report may be in preprinted “fillup” forms or narrative inthe form of a letter for external communication, or a memo for inhouse communication.In writing this report, be sure to include the following information (Searle, 2014):1. Names and job titles of all persons involved, including onlookers;2. Type of incident and stepbystep narrative description of the incident;3. Exact location and cause of the incident;4. Date and exact time of each major development;5. Clear identification of any equipment or machinery involved;6. Detailed  description  of  any  medical  intervention  required,  including  names  of  ambulanceservices and personnel, nurses, physicians, hospitals or clinics;7. Reliable statements (quotations or paraphrases) from persons involved; and8. Outcome of the incident.To avoid liabilities, it is important to use qualifiers, such as “maybe, perhaps, it seems that, itappears that, possibly,” and some others that insinuate only probabilities but not actualities. Guardyourself against doing the following (Searle, 2014):1. Do not report comments and observations of witnesses because these are not verified facts andare usually very exaggerated;2. Do not report exact words uttered by people who are very angry, distraught, or bewildered;3. Do not comment on issues not related to the incident; and4. In your recommendations, avoid blaming or focusing on incompetence; instead, encourage theadoption of measures to avoid a repeat of the incident.PROJECT PROPOSALA proposal,  a  document designed to  convince or  persuade  someone  to follow  or  accept  aspecific course of action, is written to propose: (a) change of process or policy, (b) solution to a problem,(c) purchase of a product or service, (d) pursuit of an activity, or (e) research (Sims, 2003; Murcherson,2013).Proposals may be categorized as solicited or unsolicited, depending on the origin; internal orexternal depending on the reader or audience type; and formal or informal depending on the length. Ifthe  proposal  is  solicited,  the  business,  agency,  or  organization  requesting  the  proposal  identifiessituation or problem it wishes to solve and issues an RFP (request for a proposal). Responding to an RFPof a solicited proposal is easier than writing an unsolicited one because in the solicited, the problem hasalready been identified; hence there is no need to convince anyone of its existence (Kolin, 2015).GUIDELINES IN WRITING A PROPOSALWhatever kind of proposal you intend to write, you do the same basic tasks listed below (Searle,2014; Sims, 2003).1. Summarize the situation or problem that the proposal is addressing. If unsolicited, the proposalmust convince the reader that there really is an important unmet need.2. Provide a detailed explanation of how the proposal will correct the problem. (This is the “projectdescription”)3. Confirm the feasibility of the proposal and the expected benefits of completing it, along with thepossible negative consequences of not doing it.4. Convincingly refute any probable objection.5. Establish the writer’s credentials and qualifications for the project.6. Identify any necessary resources, equipment, or support.7. Provide a reliable timetable for completion of the project.8. Provide an honest, itemized estimate of the costs. Deliberately understanding the timeline or thebudget is not only unethical but also deceitful, which can gain legal liability.9. Close with a strong conclusion that will motivate the reader to accept the proposal. A convincingcostbenefit analysis is helpful.SOLICITED INTERNAL PROPOSALThe primary purpose of an internal solicited proposal is to offer realistic, constructive plans tohelp the management run the business efficiently and effectively  M E M ORIASCO INCORPORATED234 Shaw Boulevard, Mandaluyong City(Adapted from Searles, 2014)To: Jaime Gonzaga, Site DirectorDate:  March 1, 2018From: Georgia Noble, Day Care SupervisorSubject: Play Area ProposalSummary: This is in answer to your call for suggestions for improvements to our business organization. Our Day Care room is bright, roomy, and fully equipped with everything we need. It is a model of what a day care facility should be; however, when the weather is fine, there is not much thechildren could do outdoors. A play area equipped with a picnic table and play structures for swinging,sliding, and climbing will provide the school kids with wholesome play activities. The cost may be pricey, but the safety of our kids is priceless.We often bring the school kids outside and just let them run around or play soccer in the grassy area alongside the parking lot. This place is not very safe for the kids because accidents may happen, like a car losing control.As you know, our Free Day Care program for employees of RIASCO INCORPORATED has been a major factor that helped the company attract and retain dependable, highly skilled and loyal workforce in spite of competitions from other industry.My proposal is to install a small playground surrounded by sturdy chainlink fence and equipped with a picnic table and play structures with sliding, swinging, and climbing accessories.The play equipment could be installed in one day by our own maintenance personnel, but the fence would have to be erected by its supplier. The longestablished Valla’s Fencing in Quezon City told me they could do the job in only a few days.This project may cost us some money, but this is a wise investment considering the safety of the children. Here is a tentative budget, which I estimated after researching playground equipment on the equipment Internet and at local stores and fencing companies. Here is an estimate by Valla’s Fencing.Play set  P5,000.00Picnic table    1,000.00Surface sand     350.00Chainlink fence   10,000.00        TOTAL  P16,350.00Thank you for considering this proposal. I will be very happy to discuss it with you in moredetail if you wish. advantages of effective workplacecommunication and demonstratehow it can be accomplished solet us talk about first what isworkplace communicationsolast time we talked about academiccommunication if you've seenthe previous video before this oneand it entailsformally and effectively presentingideas in a scholastic environment sothat is what we mean byuh academic communication so this timewe will discuss the effectivenessand the barriers of the transmission ofinformation or messagein the work setting so the context forthis video is in the workplaceokay so basicallywe know that communication is theprocess of transmitting informationand common understanding from one personto another so we have the sender and thereceiver of the message being conveyedso for businesses to build and keepsolid working relationshipscommunication in the workplace isessentialokay now let's answer the question whyis effective communication important inworkso we have here run and summerso according to them each person'scommunication abilities have an impacton their effectivenessboth personally and within theirorganization or workplaceso that this means that a lack ofeffective communication appears to beone of the factors mostdetrimental to organizationaleffectivenessokay so thereforefor one to be successful as anadministrator ora manageror authority in a workplacehaving good communication skills iscrucial and that is also according toone author named yateso this is why administratorsor employersand of course the employees musttherefore make an effort to improvetheir communication skills so it's notone way but it's two way okay so it'sboth the employer and employeerelationship and how they cancommunicate to one another effectivelythis course will be helpful for you todevelop your communication skillsespecially oral communication as earlyas possibleso effective communication mattersespecially in a working environmentbecause it plays a prominent role indeveloping a longlasting employeemotivation so not just thought itimproves relationship and produceshealthy environment so when a workplacehasits employers and employees having agood communication skills to one anotherthen that will lead to a healthyenvironment right so it's nice to workwith a healthy environment and not sotoxicsothis is why in every workplace a leadershould maintain an effectivecommunication with his or hersubordinates because if not he or shewill be misunderstood so it's also theother way around so it uh if the membersof a workplace or the employeesdon't haveor they don'tknow how to maintain an effectivecommunication then they may also bemisunderstood by the leaders ortheir colleagues or coworkers okay sothat is why effective communicationmattersand it plays a prominent role indeveloping a long lasting employeemotivation example so for instance whenthere is a good communication within theworkplace then the employees an employercan build a team which binds themtogether and through that they canalways make things clear when there is amiscommunication that arisesall right so let's proceedso this time let's talk about theimportance of communication in theworkplaceso as you can see here the first onewill beuh effective communication in theworkplace leads to job satisfactionright so your team's morale can beimproved and you can maintain a sense ofbelonging by using effectivecommunicationso you will experience greater jobsatisfaction if you comprehendhow effective communication impacts bothyou and your superiors so as you can seehere it helps in building loyalty andtrust which eventually attributes togreater job satisfaction as you can seein the picture she keeps on saying sheloves her job all right and the onething for surethat makes her say she loves or remindsherself that she loves her job is becausethere is an effective communication inthe workplace between the colleagues andthe manager or the boss or the directorokay so for the job satisfaction let'sgive an example for instancejob satisfaction can be achieved becausethere is less confusion between themanagement and the staff or amongdepartments because of effectivecommunication which preventsfrustration and resentment in your jobokay so sometimes there because peoplecannot understand each other they don'tempathize with one another they don'tcommunicate effectively then whathappens is that they have the tendencytoresenttheir colleaguesor their boss orworsetheir job itselfokay so this means that poorcommunicationcan also result in gossip and rumorswhich can lower uh employee morale andit decreases productivity and the resultin employee turnover you know when uhsometimes misunderstanding happenbecauseuhpeople in the workplace talk attend somesome okay not not everyone so they tendto talk about a specific person aspecific colleague behind her bag andthat is probably because of somemisunderstanding that they weren't ableto communicate maybethe issues or the problems that theyhave regarding are about that person andthuspoor communication happens so you knowit affects it hasa domino effectto thework itself into the employees that'swhyyou know thisis wherewe have to realize that effectivecommunicationis importantokayso the next one is of courseeffective communication in the workplacelessons conflictsright so open communication in theworkplace can help prevent and resolvemany conflicts just like my example awhile ago so conflicts at workcan easily be resolved through mutualdiscussion and open communication whichcan foster both professional andpersonal growth right so let's um goback to that issue of being a mariettaorsomeone who talks about other people oryou know justtalk abouttheir work badly so instead of spreadingrumors that could have unintendedconsequencesyou can talk to the staff about itor if you feel that management is havingfavoritismabout certain employees or not sharingsuccess with you soyou can just probablyopen your thoughts and be vocal aboutwhat you think isright and what you think is somethingwrong so that effective communicationcan happenokayall right so next one is activecommunicationincreases productivityall right so according to studies themost crucial factor in determining anorganization successor failureeffective communication at work so everyorganization has a set of objectives weknow that you know there are some goalsand vision that arealready clearly stated so if anadministrator or your boss the managercommunicates clearlythen this staff or the members willunderstand exactly what the organizationneeds and be able tofulfill it to the best of theirabilitiesso the significance of communication isskills can therefore be assessed by thefact that it results in better workdeliveryand of course raising workplaceproductivityright so the next one isuh effective communication leads to theformation of good relationships so workrelationships are the ones that you formwith other people in your professionallifeso working relationships with coworkersincluding those in your department andyour supervisorsthey are likely todevelop if you have effectivecommunication skills so additionallyyou can develop enduring business tieswith the clients of your company if youare workingin a business company and in other wordsthat meansbetter personal and professionalrelationships are formed as a result ofopen communication so whether it bebetween the employees and theadministrators or between management andemployeesso employees are more likely of courseto stick with the company if they feellike they are truly valued and cared foryou know if the uhif the boss communicates effectivelywithhis or her members then you know themembers will of course feeluhgenuine carefrom his boss or the company then theyare more likely to be loyal of courseand be better and happier employeeokay as they are working with theirworking relationshipsall right so next of course is of coursethere will be a proper utilization ofresources so as you can see here whenthe staff members fail to communicateeffectivelywithin an organizationproblems crisis and conflicts resultadding unnecessary delays to daily tasksso you know ineffective communicationcan lead toyou know um assets and a while agodominic affect affecting otheraspects of the work it's not justbetween the relationships of people butalsouh the tasks that they haveor they should have accomplished at thetimeall right so this results in resourcewaste and lowers overall workproductivityright so as a result any organizationthat wants to maximize productivity andbetter utilize its resources must ofcourse have a good communicationenvironmentlet's talk about the barriersthat could hinder effectivecommunicationsothere are various types of barriers thatcan obstruct communication of courseand according to raqqa and dar andauthor some researchers some scholars sothey classified these barriers asenvironmental and personal okay soboth of these barriers of course havethe ability to blockto filter or distort the messagethat is being exchanged between thesender and the receiverof the messagearealready so first let's talk aboutenvironmental communication barriersright so first we havethe competent competition for attentionso what do we mean by this so of coursemessagesare incorrectly decoded as a result ofmultiple and concurrent demandsright so imagine ifyou were talking to someone and thereareuh that someone is talking to somebodyelse and somebody else is also talkingto somebody you know there is acompetition for attention so most likelythe messagethat you want to conveywill most likely be notuh exactlyreceived as it is by the receiver or bythe person that youuh want to convey that message with souhall right so to put it simplyuh we can say that the message is heardbut the receiver does not understand itbecause the attention is not focused onthe sender so of course listening is aprocess that integrates physicalemotional and intellectual inputs intothe search for meaning and understandingso that's why it is uhreally important that if somebody ifsomeone is talking to you and thatmost likelyinsome situation that is very urgent veryimportant so listening is animportant aspect ofeffective communicationall right so it is only effectivewhen the receiver understand thesender's intended messages so as aresult without active listening thereceiver does not comprehend the messageokay so we have to beactively listening totheuh to someoneall right in order for us tofight the competition for attentionbarrierall right another environmental barrieris time of course so take for exampleuh there is a couple who have differenttime zones solet's say our relationships were in alongdistance relationshipumsituation and one is living in thephilippines the other is in anothercountry and their time zones is reallydifferent so ineffective communicationmay existokay as a result of not having the sametime when they talk to one anotherall right so you know like for examplephilippines who might want to go tosleep already but he wants to talk withhis loved one his girlfriend orboyfriend who is in a country wheretheir time is in the morning so you knowthey have different type zones differenttime so lack of being attention mightresolve tomisunderstanding so that is just anexample and it can also happen inuh in the workplace sofor exampleyou want to talk to your boss but yourboss is uh oris having a meeting souh even though your message is urgentthat uh it is really important that youconvey that message as early as possiblebecause uhthe situation needs it but then the timeis a barrier so the time isnot really good so it can be a barrierto effective communication because whenthe time passes by messages could nolongerbeas important as it isas compared to the time that when youhaveor should have said it alreadyall right so another is managerialphilosophy somanagerial philosophy can either promoteor hinder effective communication soit'sit can be positive and it can also benegative so a manager's leadership styleand decision making processesare influenced by their managementphilosophyright so these philosophies guide amanager's best practices and aid ingiving an organizationdirection and structure so what do wemean by it so management philosophy islike the personality of the organizationso one type of this focuses on the humanresourcesand the goal of human resources is totruly valueeveryone's participation by treatingeach person as a valuable a valuablehuman resourcesoemployees are important resources thatneed to be fully utilized to show oftheir skills and productivityand organizationsthat is forced to promote employeeinvolvement in decision making uses thisstrategy this points out that the lackof attention and concern for employeesis a sign of managerial philosophy thatrestricts communication flows byrequiring all communication to followthe chain of command next is of course astatus relationship so examples of thisare because ofhierarchical status like you know beingin a hierarchy so those levels that arein on the lower level and those who arein the higher level status so of courselike the power that sometimes theauthorities holdso some subordinates might be afraid toopen up issues or communicate problemsbecause the authorities might not beapproachable such that okay so it can becommunication barrier ifum if an employee is afraid of his pawsor his manager soprobably he could not reach out toaddress an issue or a problem that issevere because he is afraidthat the manager of or his boss willnot likely entertainhim sothat could be a barrierright and another one is that use of aspecific terminologythis is another environmental barrierbecauseit can lead to miscommunication ofcourse if one person is not familiarwith the terminology and that is beingused by his or her colleagues sothiscan lead touh miscommunicationif she is notfamiliar with the termokay so these aresome of the environmental barriers orenvironmental communication barriers nowlet's go to personal communicationbarriers so as you can see here thefirst one is the individual frame ofreferencevalues and beliefsso this can also be categorized asthe what we call asattitudinal barrierall right so the attitudinal barriersarise in part as our result of eachperson's unique frame of reference whichis of course comprised of this thebeliefs the past experiences the fearshopes and expectationsall right so the sender message would beopenly and favorably receivedby the recipient if it aligns with hisopinions and attitudes and vice versa somoreover some cultures adhere to theconcepts of never question elders and donot speak unless spoken to soall right solet's talk about it uh one by one so ofcourse uh communication barriers uh interms of individual sprint of referenceor values well of course uh if you havedifferent values or beliefs with otherpeople especially with your colleaguesin the workplace then miscommunicationcan happen if you don't know how todeliver iteffectively communication can alsohappen becauseuh in some cultures like for example inthe philippines we are notuh expected or we are not encouraged tospeak toorquestionour elders or the authorities or peopleolder than us because it might come outas you know being disrespectfulso it can also be a barrier becauseuhnot you know not because you are youngerdoesn't mean that you know lesser or youare more inexperienced than the olderones okay so so another personaluh communication barrier is the statusquosoandof course filtering messages so statusquoand evaluating the sender to determinewhether to retain or filter out messagesor another additional barrier so forexamplean administrator orof the boss the manager will alwaysdisregard complaints from thereceptionist from the receiver of themessage becausehe or she has a tendency to exaggerateissues and events so however one mustexercisecaution when evaluating anddistinguishing exaggerateexaggerations from limited orfrom legitimate messagesright so for example when people preferthe current situationthey are said to prefer the status quoso they purposely filter out unpleasantinformationsouhfor example in the workplacean administrator may refuseto inform employees of an impendingdismissal and to maintain the status quoand avoid chaos the administratorpostpones the communication so you knowit can be barrier to effect effectivecommunicationanother one is the lack of empathyso when we say lack of empathy it canalso mean insensitivity to the emotionalestatesof the senders and receiverssouh empathy of course is the ability toput oneself in the shoes of another andel patrick are empathetic people areable to see the world through the eyesof others and according toresearch serves asone of themajor uh barrier to effectivecommunication you know uh being empathicuh in communication in emotion is reallysignificant in our life so that we willbe able to understand and be a more uhbeing more aware of other people'ssituationso all right so how do we overcome thesebarriers both environmental and personalso first let's talk about uh overcominguh environmental barrier as you can seehere it can be reduced if receivers andcenters and ensure that attention isgiven to their messages and thatadequate time is devoted to listening towhat is being communicated so as we haveuh said a while ago it is reallyimportanttoyou know haveorto be able to have active listeningskills that is focusing on the personunderstanding what he or she is sayinginstead of being distracted by otherthings in the environment or distractedby other peoplesolistening and time is importantand another one a management philosophythat encourages the free flow ofcommunication is constructiveall right souh the wordconstructiveherealright so as we can as wediscussed a while ago so managementphilosophy serves as the personality ofthe organization so it is reallyimportant thatthere is an open communication among theemployer and employee and you know whenyou communicate something that should bemore of constructive you know helpingother people when you criticizea colleaguethe goal is not todegrade the person or make himfeeluh less worthy or you know lower herselfesteem so that should not be thecase the thing should be it'sconstructive it's something that can behelpful for the growth both inprofessional and personal growth of thatpersonanother is it is possible to break downthe power or status barrier butintentionally choosing words and symbolsthat are easy to understand so wediscussed a while ago theuh complexity orthe consequences of usingunfamiliar terms when communicating toother people you know the terminologiesthat we useso instead of using these terms that canyou know lead to misunderstanding whynot choose words and symbols thatcan be easily grasped by the person thatyou are talking toalso in that way we can overcome thebarrierall right so another is complex complexmessages should bereinforced through a variety of channelsto reduce the chance ofmisunders misunderstandingsoall right another one isto use strategies to promotecommunication that go beyondconventional organizational boundariesa good example of how to improvecommunication within an organizationis to use diagonal communication thatpasses true task forces or committeesso when we say diagonal communicationthat meansdiagonal or crosswise cuts across allorganization divisions and levels ofhierarchy so the staff membersfrom various departments interact withone anotherin this manner so re regardless of whoreports to whomsoit can bethe communication is crosswise cuts okaycuts acrossall organization division so itit is regardless of the levels of thehierarchyso any authority structures have nobearing on this kind of communication sofor instance a certain foundationcontent writers may request uptodateinformation opinions or experience onspecific topicsfrom heads of various departments ofthat organization in order to includethem in an article they are writing soyou knowyou can approach the higher levels ofthe hierarchy or power statusso that isone way to overcome communicationbarrier other one is instead ofrestricting yourselfto functional or departmental proceduresyou use management processes that spanthe entire organizationas we have mentioned a while agomanagement processesare the processes of setting goalsplanning or controlling the organizationso it leads to you know execution of anytype of activity such as project orprocessesso it is the senior managementof the organization that is responsiblefor carrying out its managementprocessesall rightso of course the management uh themanagement's role is to help theorganization achieveuh the goals that they setright another is use human resourcespolicies and proceduressuch as job training and job relation toenhance cooperation among membersin organizationsand the last one isuse management processes are processesto resolve conflicts in an inequitablemanner to produce effectivecommunicationso managers can accomplish this bydeveloping a plan that specifies whatmust be doneor and when it must be done and how itmust be doneright so managers must communicate thisinformation to everyone in theorganization in order to implement theplan soby thatthey must communicate the plan to theorganization's membersso the task of the manager is todo much more than simply inform peopleof what they must do to support the planso they must also motivate these peopleto support the plan of course and fosterorganizational commitment establishrapport and collaborationwith one another and keep everyone up todate on events and actions affecting theorganization right sothis can lead to good communication thatnot only informs but also contributes tothe development of a culture in whichpeople feel a sense of belonging andwant to support the organizationnow let's talk about how to communicateeven though we are alreadydoing itin our everyday lives so this time sincewe are talking to a workplace so thiscan be an advantage or you know anadvanced time for you toknow how to communicate effectivelyin the workplaceokay so wehave of course uh the sender'sresponsibility and on the next one willbe the receiver'sresponsibilityall right so let's talk about thesender's responsibility so first is ofcoursethe administrators are this can be yourboss the manager or you know theone that as the leader in a certainorganization or in a workplace so heneeds to clarify their ideas beforecommunicating so they must be clear withuh the intention or the purpose of themessage that they want to communicatewith the receivers which are theemployees in order for that to be youknowto have clarity of the message that hewants to conveyand the administrator should also needto examine the true purpose of eachcommunication okay so of course what'sthe intention of talking to this uhcertainperson is it constructive orthatit's the other way aroundanother is we need to considerthe total physical and human setting ofcourse it is advisable that of coursewhen you communicate you also examineyour surrounding the environmentso will it be the right time will it bethe right place for you tosee the things that you want tocommunicate so if it's not thenmaybe you couldthink twicebefore youreach out to that person or you knowto openthe issue or the problem that you wanttobe vocal about because you know time andplace would matterin effective communicationright so another one is the need toconsult with others when appropriate inplanning communication so sometimes it'sbetter to have second opinions fromother people especially when you want toaddress a certain problem that maybecould besevere or you know extreme that a personmight not be able to comprehensivelyuh graspthe intention of that message orcommunication so maybe you can asksome colleagues that is close to thatperson umbefore actually doing it but if you areconfident thatthis is harmless the communication thatyou wantyou intended to do is harmless to thatperson or to the employee then you mightlikely uh you might choose tojust go on with thatwith communicating with that personokay next is the need to be mindfulwhile communicating of the overtones aswell as the basic content of the messageof course this is important so asidefrom the intention of the purpose youmight also have to bemindful of how you deliver the messagesouhsome peopleuh tend to havea voice or a tonethat isactually different to whatthey are like uh conveying it's like uhtake for example some peoplemay soundangry while talking to you butthey are actually not so for the senderfor it for that personit is suggestible that he should beaware of his or her tonewhen conveying the message in order toavoid misunderstanding okaysoyou know you mightsoundrude to other people but uhfor yourself you're not actually beingrude so you have to examine it you haveto be aware of itright next is to the need to take theopportunity when it arises to conveysomething of help or value to thereceiver so this is just uh similar withexamining the surrounding or theenvironment soor the time and pleaseso just take the opportunity if it is uhyou think the right time and place todo the communicationright and next is the need to follow uptheir communicationof course umwhat this means isfor exampleyou address a certainissue or problem with an employee likefor exampleyour employee is not following a certainrulenow that is uhreally important for the company to befollowed like because uhit represents the company right and ifyou address that problem to that personand you think thatuh he or he she might misunderstoodsomething then recommended orsuggestable that you follow up to thatperson in order toclear some or yeah to clear somegray areas with the communication thathe did becausethis can have a domino effect or thiscan affect affect the productivity ofthat employee or the others theemployers as they areuh alsoyou know being affected by the other uhby the action of other people or theboss soyou might want to clearthings up responsibility of theadministrator or your boss or manager isof course the need to communicate fortomorrow as well as to do it just meansthat if you have something to seeor especially if you have to address aproblem you might not delay it longertimeso and another one is that the need tobe sure that their actions support theircommunicationof course it's just like our sceneshould match the actions that you'redoing in order to communicateeffectively because otherwise uh if thewords and actions doesn't match witheach other then this can lead toconfusionandineffective communication lastly is theneed to seek not only to be understoodbut to understand and be a good listenerso of course you're not just the onespeaking andconveying the message youare being emphatic to the recipient ofthat message because if you are justspeaking and not actively listening soineffective communication could stillhappen so you have to be botha listener and a speakernow let's go to those receiversresponsibilityso of course when someone is talking toyou the firstone that you have to do is to stoptalking it is suggestible that youdo not speak simultaneously with theperson who is talking to you in order toavoid themconfusionor misunderstanding tothe message that isbeing conveyed and you have that meansyou have to put the talker at ease youhave to make himfeel safe and comfortable whilecommunicating with youall right and you have to show a talkeror the speaker or the sender of themessage that you want to listen that youare actively listening that you areactuallyinteresteduh to thatto what the person is talking about orto what he or she is sharing to youandnext is to remove distractionsall right so in order for effectivecommunication to happen as we havediscussed a while agoyou need not to distracted by theenvironment or the surroundings you haveto focus solely on the speaker well ofcourse i have to pay attention of courseto the uh surrounding as well but umdon't make it anuh a hindrance or an obstacle for aneffective communication to happenanother one is you know as we said theempathy or being able tosee through the lens of theother personso you have to put yourself on his orherstand on his or her shoes in order tounderstand what he is actually conveyingso it alsoaligns with being an active listener sobe patientsobe patient while um the other person istalkinglisten first soanother one is holding your temper so ofcoursetemper or being emotional oryou know expressing emotions should alsobeumin the right time and place so it isreally not good whenone is angry and he's talking to you andthenhe tend tobe angry as well so ineffectivecommunication can happenall right so go easy on argument andcriticism so this is what we are talkingaboutso the criticism should beconstructively not the other way aroundand of course you also have to askquestions soit's not really nice if you justtend to be a passive listener passivecommunicator because that will mean thatyou're just accepting the information orthe messageseven though something is not clear toyouso it is really important that you askquestions in order to clarify somethingsthat is not clear to youso with that coming effectivecommunication could take place in theworkplacenowuh let's talk about the types ofcommunication in the workplace so ofcourse as you can see hereuhcommunication can be in the verbal formthat means face to face or person toperson communication so you're actuallypresent you are actually thereanother one is body language and facialexpressions so of course this does notonly exist in the workplacebut i think inall aspects of our lives so just couldalso beconveyed through thebody language that a person makessouh in order tobe effectivelycommunicating we should be aware of thegesturesthe facial expressions the make face orthe hand gestures that we make in orderto avoid confusionso another one is of course a phoneconversation especially in our timetodaythat everything is very viable ontechnology that everyone is relying onrelying on technologyuh work uhduring the pandemic everything is uhonline or especially you know uh withthe search of the lockdownpeopledid not report an officeso most of them communicates inuhin a virtual platform so this is where aphone conversationor you know through the businesscommunicationare being sent virtually so this isanother type of communication in theworkplace and lastly is of course thewritten communicationswitch is more formal than the oralcommunicationbut sometimes it is deemed as lessefficient than the oral communicationso we havethese forms of written communication asyou can see here of courseuhthis is not just limited to the peopleare already working but also to thisstudent we use the gmailas a form of communicationsogmail or any other type of emails wehave the yahoo.com dropbox and of coursethe things thatyou know this serves as a more formaltype of communication because it'scompared tothe messenger meals tend to be moreformal as youhave to follow some pattern or you knowsome templatebefore you send it to the person or toyour boss or tothe recipient of that messageof course we have here the text messagesthe blog postsbusiness letters reports proposalscontracts so these are some forms of ourwritten communication in the workplaceas wellthis also include some you know jobdescriptions employee manualsum memos or memorandums bulletinsinstant messagespostcards faxes advertisements brochuresand news release uh news releases sothese are some forms of writtencommunication in the workplace so onceyou start working you'll get yesterday'stypes of communicationright so this time let's talk about howto maintain effective writtencommunication so we have here uh fivecharacteristics order to havean effective form of writtencommunication so the first one is beingcomprehensive that meansit should include all the relevantdetailsthatone would like to convey to therecipient of themessageso another is being accurate that meansall details are correctand itshould also be appropriateso you have to have the right tone andthe level of formality so it depends tothe personor the recipient of the messageand it is also important to take note ofthe correct spellings and grammars whenyou are using thewritten communication and of coursemost importantly last last but not leastis it is understandableso it won't be as effective as it is ifthe message that you are conveying isnot clear to the recipient of themessage soall in all the importance of writtencommunicationin the workplace especially in businessfor example or the companies is thatnearly every aspect of thesebusiness operationscompanies use written communicationso for starters written communication iscost effectivewhich is one reason why it is importantin business so for instancea letter can be used to communicate thesame informationfor less money than a long distance callwritten communication has thepotential to be more accurate than theverbal communicationcarefully crafted letters for instancecan helpensure the accuracy of even complexcommunicationsbecausesometimesverbal communications tend tocreatemisunderstanding because or variables orfactors that affects the communicationbetween the sender and the receiversoadditionally it is also more officialthan the verbal communicationcommunication for academic purposesMany people intuitively know the proper way to communicate in different settings; for instance, the way you speak to your friends is usually different than the way you speak to your parents. Academic communication, also called scholarly communication, refers to methods of communication that are highly structured and generally only used in pedagogical settings. Academic communication can include the words and structures used to express ideas, as well as the methods by which ideas are disseminated.Basic SkillsBecause the ways in which academics communicate must often be learned, schools sometimes offer courses designed to teach or improve these communication skills. As a student in one of these courses, you will be taught advanced vocabulary, proper grammar, reading comprehension and verbal expression. You'll learn how to write in a formal tone and politely address your reader, whether it is a professor or peer.In addition to developing highlevel communication skills, you might also learn about academiaspecific topics, such as how to format a paper to Modern Language Association standards. You also might learn how to write book reviews, research papers and laboratory reports. One element of academic communication that you'll usually learn in college is how to formulate a thesis or academic argument.Special CircumstancesEnglish as a Second Language (ESL) learners and students with unique learning, speech or hearing needs might require intensive instruction in academic communication. In these cases, special learning techniques are often used to ensure that students learn to communicate academically in the easiest way possible. For example, in the case of ESL learners, this might mean extra practice with pronunciation or complex words used in academic argumentation.Transmission of Academic InformationWhen a scholar needs to publish a new discovery, or your teacher needs to inform you of the resources that you can use for a homework assignment, they must use a particular channel of communication. In these cases, academic communication refers to the methods in which ideas are distributed among scholars or students. You can find academic information disseminated in such places as scientific journals, newsgroups, online course management systems and research libraries.Internet CommunicationThe widespread use of the Internet has greatly affected academic communication and has caused both advances and complications in academic discourse. While academicians now have the ability to share information with all corners of the globe, they must also face an increased risk of plagiarism. For this reason, correctly citing sources through annotations or bibliographies is vital to academic communication.Academic institutions must also keep up with changing technology and might alter their policies to ensure fair access to academic resources. They furthermore might need to adapt to new forms of academic communication, such as the use of email to communicate with instructors or the need to cite online articles.What are examples of academic communication?Some examples of academic communication are textbooks, presentations, dissertations, research articles, and lectures. If you've had experience with these, you'll understand how they can be different.10 Effective Communication SkillsUniversity courses will be a different experience than high school. You will need to really concentrate in the classes as they are long. If you just think of them as boring, this can lead to your not focusing and missing the class material.Active Listening to LearnActive listening skills can give some tips on how to focus in class and not fall asleep. This leads to less stress around exams time and helps you to along with so well in your exams. Active Listening is hearing – with understanding – the intended ideas, information, and suggestions of others. Active listeners pay attention to verbal and nonverbal messages. The challenge is to listen closely (and set aside your own assumptions, biases, judgments, and emotions). Then to ask questions to get more information. You can use these techniques.ParaphrasingParaphrasing is restating the content of a message in your own words. Typically, it does not include feelings. This gives the speaker an opportunity to consider what they are saying and to refine it if they like. When you get it right, the other person will communicate in some way that they feel understood. When you paraphrase what you have heard into your own words, you show your present understanding and thus enable the other person to add any clarification to the understanding or misunderstanding you have.ClarifyingThe desired outcome is a clear understanding between people. Clarifying is thinking about on the broader context of what you understand the speaker to be saying and often comes in the form of a question. You can request the other to clarify by asking, “What do you mean by…?” “Can you tell me more about…?” This gives the speaker an opportunity to fill in any missing pieces to the conversation. Clarifying is also checking understanding of a message by asking to hear it again. This encourages both of you to consider the meaning and impact of words or actions. Use clarifying when you want to understand what is being communicated in context.ProbingProbing is a subset of clarifying. Probing is used to prompt a speaker to give more information or to explore a situation that is not clear to you as the listener. It creates a request to become more specific in situations that are often of an important, complex, sensitive, or problematic in nature.CautionsRegardless of which of the techniques you choose to use, you will need to listen not only for the words, but also for the feelings behind them. To truly comprehend the message a person is sending, you must try to understand the other person’s frame of reference, even if you do not agree with it. Using this strategy is an important first step in creating understanding with others.STEPS IN CONDUCTING A RESEARCHPAPERTOPIC PROPOSAL—LITERATURE REVIEWDATA GATHERING—DATA ANALYSISWhat is communication forAcademic purposes?When a person, whether they are a student,A member of the academe or any personnelRelated to the field of education orResearchers whose aim is to share, informAnd/or present ideas, products and/orResult of research, one is communicatingFor academic purposesAcademic researchThe term research is defined asthe scientific investigation ofphenomena which includescollection, presentation, analysisand interpretation of facts thatlinks an individual's speculationwith reality.In other words, research is theresearch study of trends or eventswhich involves careful collection,presentation, analysis andinterpretation of quantitative data orfacts that relates man's thinking withreality. (PalerCarmorin, et al., 2015)Some nature of research are discussedbriefly as follows:SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION OFPHENOMENAINTERPRETATION OF FACTSLINKS AN INDIVIDUAL'SSPECULATION WITH REALITYBenefits of researchIN BUSINESSES Research helps businesses to keepgoing by modifying, improving oradjusting products and services.Without research, it is pretty sure thata business cannot endure in the fastchanging world.IN SCHOOLS Administrators benefit in researchby finding out the effects of animplemented curriculum,approaches in teaching, orfactors in learning. Researchesallow them to improveeducational practice.FOR STUDENTS Students benefit in research as well.The endbeneficiaries of all academicresearches are the students. Ifschools improve and practicesupdated because of research, themost that will benefit are the students.IN MEDICAL PRACTICE  The importance of researchcannot be emphasized. Imagine aworld full of sick people withoutany medicine to cure them?Research provides breakthroughsin the field of medicine.IN SOCIETY Research brings benefits to the industry,community, and society at large. Withoutresearch, there can be no progress. Asa research expert once said, "researchis an indispensable tool to nationaldevelopment, and if we may add, toglobal advancement. "Several characteristics may be attributedto a good research. Some of them are asfollows:The title must be clearly stated and the words used inthe title must be defined well.It must not be biased, but rather, must be objectiveespecially in the analysis, conclusion, andrecommendation.The dependent and the independent variables mustbe clearly stated.It must be interesting and timely.The findings must be backed up by ample data andevidences.The statement of the problem must be clearly stated.MODULE 8 COMMUNICATION FOR ACADEMIC PURPOSESThis chapter will make you recall some of what you know about academic writing, but mostimportantly, as college students, you will be doing some analysis of various types of academic articlesbefore finally producing your own academic papers for presentation both orally and otherwise (print,audio, visual, webbased).UNDERSTANDING THE MEANING OF ACADEMIC WRITINGIn its broadest sense, “academic writing is any writing done to fulfil a requirement of a college oruniversity . . . , which  also  used for publications that are read by teacher and researchers orpresented at conferences,”  such as  essays, book reports, abstracts, translations, research and  termpapers, academic journals, theses, and dissertations (“Writing for Education,” 2018).A more narrow meaning specifies that academic writing is any formal written work produced inan academic setting by students, professors, and researchers in every discipline to convey ideas, makearguments, and engage in scholarly conversation; its most common forms are literary analyses, researchpapers, and theses and dissertations (Valdes, 2018).Academic writing  produces or analyzes knowledge; while  writing, you learn how to analyzeknowledge and take up a position or stance appropriate to your degree program (“What Is AcademicWriting?” 2007). The type of writing you are expected to work on differs from that of a student inanother degree program because academic writing varies from discipline to discipline.Different areas of knowledge have different traditions, conventions, as well as ways of thinkingand doing things; therefore, to be effective in your chosen field, you need to know not only its languagebut also its values, rules, and terms—things that are important to actively and competently perform andparticipate in the academic discourse and college writing of your academic discipline (“What Is AcademicWriting?” 2007; 2018).KNOWING HOW ACADEMIC WRITING IS DONEAlthough the academic output varies from discipline to discipline, the same process of writing isfollowed  for  all  degree  programs.  Here  are  the  guidelines  that need  to  be  considered  (Bullock  &Weinberg, 2009).1. Choose a topic  . Look for any topic that interests you. The topic should be appropriate to the kindof text assigned and to the specified, required time of completion.2. Consider the rhetorical elements  . These are (a) purpose for writing, (b) expected audience, (c)stance—whether serious, objective, critical, opinionated, curious, passionate, or indifferent—and tone—whether funny, ironic, reasonable, thoughtful, angry, or gentle, (d) genre that calls foreither formal or informal language—such as memo, letter, report, abstract, research, personalessay, narrative, review, and proposal, (e) medium—print, spoken, or electronic, and (f) design—format, typefaces, illustrations, and audiovisual materials.3. Generate ideas and text  . Aim to find the best information from credible sources. Selfpublishingmedia, such as websites, should be evaluated—if managed by an expert or a group of experts, orby laypersons and amateurs.4. Organize your ideas  . The organization needed depends on rhetorical elements, like purpose,audience, stance and tone, genre, and medium.5. Write out a draf  . Consider your genre, medium, and design when deciding on register and styleof writing.6. Revise,  edit,  and  proofread  .  Pay  special  attention  to  correctness  of  language  (grammar,mechanics, style).7. Evaluate your work  . Answer the following questions.a. How well did you convey the information? Is it complete enough for your audience’s needs?b. What strategies did you rely on, and how did they help you achieve your purpose?c. How well did you organize your ideas?d. Are the data properly documented? Are the sources of information credible?e. Did you use any tables, graphs, diagrams, photographs, illustrations, or some other graphicseffectively?f. What did you do especially well?g. What could still be improved?THE STRUCTURE OF ACADEMIC TEXTSYou can easily recognize academic texts because they are organized in a specific way; they haveclear structure that  helps you  as  writer to  organize your ideas  easily and  to  allow your reader tounderstand your writing better.Most texts use  the  IMRD  structure—the  acronym for introduction, methods  and  materials,results, and discussion. The aim and research questions, which are usually found after the introduction,together with a conclusion and references, complement the structure (Berger, 2016; “The Structure ofAcademic Texts,” 2017).1. Aim  . This is the general purpose of the text, and it appears after the introduction. (Example: “Toinvestigate how effective nursing interventions are for smoking cessation”)2. Research questions  . The questions, which are placed after the aim, limit or specify the aim.(Questions for the cited aim: “What nursing interventions exist?” and “How many patients arestill smokefree after one year?3. Introduction  . This comes before the aim and the research questions. Explain the importance ofthe aim,  mention that  there is  something about it  that is  not  yet known,  and  specify  thebenefit/s that can be gained from the knowledge to be discovered. Using the cited aim and research questions, perhaps the benefit can be “to providebetter care or develop a new drug or new treatment method,” or “that there is a problem withan existing method and that alternative methods are needed.” After you have accounted for thecontext and pointed to the importance of new knowledge in the field, your reader will be wellprepared when you present your aim and research questions after the introduction.When writing a thesis, you may also cite researches done (in a literature review) andwhat still needs to be found out, leading to your aim.4. Methods and materials  . Mention what procedure you followed to achieve your aim and answeryour research questions. First, your reader should understand how you got the results, andsecond, after reading this section, they should be able to duplicate your research.Start with the method, such as your study design. If you tell your readers right away that yourwork is a literature review or that your method consisted of interviewing nurses using semistructured interviews, it will easier for them to understand the details that follow.5. Results  . Present the results objectively without interpreting them because the interpretation willappear in  the discussion section. For text coherence, sequence the results by following theparticular order of the research questions as they were given.Use properly labelled or captioned tables to make the results easier to understand evenwithout reading the accompanying texts.6. Discussion  . This is where you interpret your results. It is the most difficult part because you needto analyze the results and interpret them at the same time. This is the usual outline for this part.a. First paragraph: repeat the aim and give the  importance of  the study  to the  field. Forinstance, you can say “this is the first study to examine the correlation between…” Then youbriefly account for the most important parts of your results, perhaps linking them to yourhypothesis if you have one.b. The rest of the discussion analyzes and interprets the results. These questions can help you. What do your results mean? How do they relate to previous research? What are the reasons for potential differences     between your study and previous research? What do potential similarities indicate? How may your method have affected your results? What are the strengths and weaknesses of the study? How do they affect your results?  How  are  your  results  important  for  future  developments?  What  are  the  clinical implications,   for example? What kind of research is needed in the field in the future, and why? 7. Conclusions  .  Make  a  general  statement  about  your  aim  and  your  results;  focus  on  theimplications of your results and mention the need for further research.8. References  . Indicate all cited sources of data, and use the American Psychological Association(APA) style of documentation    Formats of Research or Scholarly and Professional Reports Research/Scholarly Report (Treadwell, 2017)Title PageAbstractIntroduction• Goals and Significance of Research• Literature Review• Aim and Research Questions and/or HypothesisMethods and Materials• Participants or Sampling• Procedure Used• Measures Used (if quantitative study)ResultsDiscussion• Analysis and Interpretation of Results• Conclusions• Recommendations for Future ResearchReferencesAppendicesKEY FEATURES OF ACADEMIC TEXTSWhatever format is followed for the presentation of ideas, the various academic texts are identified through their basic features (Bullock & Weinberg, 2009).1. Literacy Narrative  (welltold story, vivid detail, clear significance) 2. Article/Book Review  (a summary of text, attention to context, a clear interpretation, support for your conclusions)3. Research Report  (a tightly focused topic, wellresearched information, various writing strategies, clear definitions, appropriate design)4. Position Paper  (a clear and arguable position, background information, good reasons, convincing evidence, appeals to readers, a trustworthy tone, consideration of any other positions)5. Abstract  , such as informative, descriptive, critical abstracts (a summary of basic information, objective description, brevity)6. Evaluation  (a concise description of the subject, clearly defined criteria, a knowledgeable discussion, a balanced and fair assessment, wellsupported reasons)7. Laboratory Report  (an explicit title, abstract, purpose, methods, results and discussion, references, appendices, appropriate format)Professional Report (Treadwell, 2017)Title PageTable of Contents (if necessary)Executive SummaryIntroductionBody of Report(The headings used depend on the length, purpose, and intended audience of the report.)(A professional report may or may not contain the sections expected for a research report.)RecommendationsAppendices8. Literary Analysis  (an arguable thesis, careful attention to the language of the text, attention to patterns or themes, a clear interpretation)9. Proposal  (a welldefined problem, a recommended solution, a convincing argument for your solution, possible questions, a call for action, an appropriate tone) Lesson 6: Communication for Academic PurposesLearning OutcomesAt the end of the lesson, you are expected to achieve the following:1. Identify and apply the different stylistic elements of good academic writing.2. Develop a sociopolitical analysis paper or a position paper.3. Write a researchbased documented essay observing stylistic conventions of academicwriting.Academic WritingAcademic writing refers to a style of expression that researchers use to define theintellectual boundaries of their disciplines and specific areas of expertise. It is designed toconvey agreed meaning about complex ideas or concepts for a group of scholarly experts.STYLISTIC ELEMENTS OF GOOD ACADEMIC WRITINGThe accepted form of academic writing in diverse disciplines can vary considerablydepending on the intended audience and the organizational outline. However, mostuniversitylevel academic papers require careful attention to the following stylisticelements:The Overall View. Unlike journalistic or fiction writing, the overall structure of academicwriting is formal and logical. Thus, it is important to take note of the following points: The paper must be cohesive and possess a logically organized flow of ideas  thissuggests that the various parts are connected to form a unified whole. There should be transitional devices or narrative links between sentences andparagraphs so that the reader will be able to follow your argument. The introduction should include an explanation of how the rest of the paper isorganized and all sources are properly cited throughout the paper.Language. The analysis of research problems in diverse disciplines is often complex andmultidimensional. Hence, it is significant that you use language that fits your audience andmatches your purpose. Inappropriate language uses can undermine your argument,damage your credibility, or alienate your audience. Here are some points to remember: The key to successful writing focuses on the levels of formality and conciseness thatunderscores writing in a style that your audience expects and that fits your purpose. Use clear topic sentences and wellstructured paragraphs to enable readers tofollow your line of thinking without difficulty. Avoid using ingroup jargons or specialized language used by groups of likemindedindividuals. You have to bear in mind that you only use ingroup jargon when you arewriting for members of that group. You should never use jargon for a generalaudience without first explaining it. Avoid using slang or idiomatic expressions in general academic writing. Avoid using euphemisms or words that veil the truth and other deceitful language. Avoid using biased language including language with a racial, ethnic, group, orgender bias or language that is stereotypical.Academic Tone. The overall tone refers to the writer's voice in a written work. It is what thereaders might perceive as the writer's attitude, bias, or personality. When writing in anacademic tone, you must take into consideration the following points: Present the arguments of others objectively and with an appropriate narrative tone. Describe these arguments accurately and without biased or loaded languagewhenever you present an argument or a position that you disagree with. Investigate the research problem from an authoritative perspective. State the strong points of your arguments confidently by using language that isneutral, not dismissive or confrontational. Avoid making broad generalizations, using oversweeping adjectives, adverbs,qualifiers, emotional language and inflammatory language.Academic Diction. Academic diction refers to the linguistic choices a writer makes toeffectively convey an idea or a standpoint. When writing in an academic diction, you musttake note of the following points: Awareness of the words you use is vital because words that have almost the samedenotation or dictionary definition can have very different connotations or impliedmeanings. Use concrete and specific words that convey precise meaning. Explain what you mean within the context of how that word or phrase is used withina discipline. Be consistent with your labels. Call people what they want to be called. Use genderinclusive language. Avoid placing gender identifiers in front of nouns.❏ Avoid the use of the following:o slang expressions (very informal language that is usually spoken rather than written, usedespecially by particular groups of people);o cliché phrases (ideas or expressions that have been used too often and is oftenconsidered a sign of bad writing or oldfashioned thinking);o metaphors or figures of speech (words or phrases used in a nonliteral sense for rhetoricalor vivid effect);o colloquialisms (common words or phrases used in a nontraditional and informal way);o jargons (special words or expressions used by a particular profession or group and aredifficult for others to understand);o big words (difficult words or phrases used for the sake of sounding scholarly);o meaningless words (words or phrases that hold little meaning when you consider thepotentially diverse backgrounds of your reading audience);o platitudes (clichés that also pretend to offer advice, lesson, or moral guidance);o pejoratives (words or phrases that express the bias of the author);o contractions (words made by shortening and combining two words), and textmessagesor short message service (SMS) spellingso These casual expressions may be appropriate in informal or personal messages, but theyare inappropriate in academic research papers.❏ Use personal pronouns carefully. Generally, you also want to avoid using thepersonal "I" in an academic paper unless you are writing a reflection paper or areaction paper.❏ Writing from the thirdperson point of view is important in academic research writingbecause it makes your paper sounds more assertive, more professional and credible.Punctuation. To establish the narrative tone of their work, scholars rely on precise wordsand language. Thus, punctuation marks are used very deliberately. Semicolons represent a pause that is longer than a comma, but shorter than aperiod in a sentence. In general, there are four grammatical uses of semicolons: when a second clause expands or explains the first clause; to describe a sequence of actions or different aspects of the same topic; placed before clauses which begin with “for instance”, “even so”, "nevertheless",and "therefore"; and to mark off a series of phrases or clauses which contain commas.If you are not confident about when to use semicolons, rewrite using shorter sentences orrevise the paragraph. Colons should be limited to introducing, announcing or directing attention to a list, anoun or noun phrase, a quotation, or an example/explanation; joining sentences; andexpressing time, in titles, and as part of other writing conventions. Hyphens should be limited to connecting prefixes to words like “multidisciplinary” orwhen forming compound words or phrases like “onsite” and “rightofway.” Dashes should be limited to the insertion of an explanatory comment in a sentence. Exclamation points are rarely used to express a heightened tone because it cancome across as unsophisticated or overexcited.Academic ConventionsThe most important aspect of academic writing is citing sources in the body of your paperand providing a list of references as either footnotes or endnotes. When consideringacademic conventions, you must take into consideration the following points: It is essential to always acknowledge the source of any ideas, research findings, data,paraphrased, or quoted text that you have used in your paper as a defense againstallegations of plagiarism. With reference to academic writing purposes, the guidelines for fair use arereasonably explicit. This means that you may quote from or paraphrase material frompreviously published works without formally obtaining the copyright holder’spermission.Fair use means that you legitimately use brief excerpts from source material to support and develop your own ideas.However, quoting or paraphrasing another’s work at excessive length, to the extent that large sections of the writingare unoriginal, is not fair use. Rules concerning precise word structure and excellent grammar do not apply whenquoting someone. To set off and represent exact language either spoken or writtenthat has come from somebody else is the primary function of quotation marks. Directquotations involve incorporating another person's exact words into your own writing. The following covers the basic use of quotation marks: Quotation marks always come in pairs. Do not open a quotation and fail to close itat the end of the quoted material; Capitalize the first letter of a direct quote when the quoted material is a completesentence; Do not use a capital letter when the quoted material is a fragment or only a piece ofthe original material's complete sentence; If a direct quotation is interrupted midsentence, do not capitalize the second partof the quotation; Note that the period or comma punctuation always comes before the finalquotation mark. However, it is important to realize also that when you are using some otherform of documentation, this punctuation rule may change; When quoting text with a spelling or grammar error, you should transcribe the errorexactly in your own text. However, also insert the term sic in italics directly after the mistake,and enclose it in brackets. Sic is from the Latin, and translates to "thus," "so," or "just as that."The word tells the readers that your quote is an exact reproduction of what you found, andthe error is not your own; When there is a quote within a quotation, enclose the inner quote in singlequotation marks and the whole quotation in double quotation marks; Direct quotations which run to less than five lines are integrated in the text andsimply enclosed in quotation marks; Quoted material that runs from five or more lines are indented seven spaces,italicized, and typed single space. The quotation is also indented at least four spaces fromthe righthand margin. No quotation marks are used; and Quotations are most effective if you use them sparingly and keep them relativelyshort. Too many quotations in a research paper will get you accused of not producingoriginal thought or material. The scholarly convention of citing sources allows readers to identify the resourcesyou used in writing your paper so they can independently verify and assess thequality of findings and conclusions based on your review of the literature. Other examples of academic conventions to follow include the appropriate use ofheadings and subheadings, properly spelling out acronyms when first used in thetext, and avoiding unsupported declarative statements.EvidenceBased Reasoning Coursework often asks you to express your own standpoint about the researchproblem. However, what is valued in academic writing is that viewpoints or opinionsare based on what is often termed, evidencebased reasoning. This type ofreasoning underscores the following: A sound understanding of the pertinent body of knowledge and academic debatesthat exist within, and often external to your discipline; The need to support your opinion with evidence from scholarly sources; An objective stance presented as a logical argument; The quality of your evidence will determine the strength of your argument; and The challenge is to convince the reader of the validity of your opinion through awelldocumented, coherent, and logically structured piece of writing, which isparticularly important when proposing solutions to problems or delineatingrecommended courses of action.ThesisDriven. Academic writing is “thesisdriven.” This implies the following: The starting point is a particular perspective, idea, or position applied to the chosentopic of investigation, such as, establishing, proving, or disproving solutions to theresearch questions posed for the topic. A problem statement without the research questions does not qualify as academicwriting because simply identifying the research problem does not establish for thereader how you will contribute to solving the problem, what aspects you believe aremost critical, or suggest a method for gathering data to better understand theproblem.Complexity and HigherOrder Thinking. Academic writing addresses multifaceted issuesthat require higherorder thinking skills applied to understanding the research problem suchas creative, critical, logical, and reflective thinking as opposed to, for example, prescriptiveor descriptive thinking. When considering complexity and higherorder thinking skills, youmust take note of the following: Cognitive processes that describe abstract ideas that cannot be easily shown withimages, pointed to, or acted out and are used to express concepts, to comprehend,and to solve problems comprise higherorder thinking skills. Reflect on this: One of the most significant attributes of a good teacher is the abilityto explain complexity in a way that is understandable and relatable to the topic beingpresented. This is also one of the main purposes of academic writing  examiningand explaining the significance of complex ideas as clearly as possible. As a writer, you must adopt the role of a good teacher by summarizing a lot ofcomplex information into a wellorganized synthesis of ideas, concepts, andrecommendations that contribute to a better understanding of the research problem.Refining Academic WritingTo improve your academic writing skills, you should focus your efforts on four key areas:Clear Writing. The act of thinking about precedes the process of writing about. Good writersspend sufficient time distilling information and reviewing major points from the literaturethey have reviewed before creating their work. Writing detailed outlines can help youclearly organize your thoughts. Effective academic writing begins with solid planning, somanage your time carefully.Excellent Grammar. Generally, English grammar can be difficult and complex; even thebest scholars take many years before they have a command of the major points of goodgrammar. Take the time to learn the minor and major points of good grammar to avoidpresenting papers riddled with errors. Spend time practicing writing and seek detailedfeedback from professors. Good proofreading skills and proper punctuation can significantlyimprove academic writing.Credible and Scholarly Sources. Credibility is defined as the quality or power of inspiringbelief. Credible sources, therefore, must be reliable sources that provide information thatone can believe to be true. It is important to use credible sources in an academic researchpaper because your audience will expect you to have backed up your assertions withcredible evidence. The five best resources to help you in writing a research paper include:your University’s Library; Google Scholar, RefSeek, the Internet Public Library (ipl2), and theEducation Resources Information Center (ERIC). Your University’s Library provides you access to several resources such as onlinedatabases, ebooks, books, journals, and other research articles. Google Scholar is a resource that provides you a list of journal articles, portabledocument formats (pdfs), and websites focusing on much more credible andscholarly sources appropriate for an academic research paper. RefSeek is a resource that allows you to research specifically for documents, givingyou a better chance of finding credible information to help you write your researchpaper. Internet Public Library (ipl2) is a resource that allows you to search by subject. It linksto websites, rather than scholarly journals. Education Resources Information Center (ERIC) is a database that primarily focuseson education, but it also includes a number of related topics such as psychology,social work, and other social issues.On the other hand, you must refrain from using the following sources when writing anacademic research paper: The Dictionary, About.com, and Wikipedia.com, as well as otherWikis. The Dictionary is a good sources; however, it could not provide you with a morespecialized definition of terms needed in an academic research paper. About.com could provide useful information such as novel ideas and informationrelated to fashion, health, sports, entertainment and the like. However, suchinformation is irrelevant to academic research writing. Wikipedia.com and other Wikis are also good websites; however, the problem withthem is that anyone can write and edit them, hence you cannot vouch for thecredibility of the given information.Consistent Stylistic Approach. When your professor expresses a preference to use theAmerican Psychological Association (APA) style, or the Modern Language Association (MLA)style or the Chicago Manual of Style, choose the suggested style guide and stick to it. Eachof these style guides provide rules on how to write out numbers, references, citations,footnotes, and lists. Consistent adherence to a style of writing helps with the narrative flowof your paper and improves its readability.ACADEMIC PAPERSSOCIOPOLITICAL ANALYSIS PAPERA sociopolitical analysis paper can be defined as an analysis of the economic, social, andpolitical factors that shape a particular country or situation and how these factors impact thelives and thoughts of the people. It is considered a powerful tool for understanding howcountries work and what might be done to help them cope with their challenges in order toreform and to set their priorities in a way that make them more likely to succeed.Guidelines in Writing a SocioPolitical Analysis PaperCrafting a strong sociopolitical analysis paper depends largely on its structure andunderstanding of the role of each component of the paper.A Clear Introduction. The paper should begin with introductory paragraphs that introduceyour readers to the problem or question you are addressing; lay out the thesis statement;and provide them a “roadmap” on how you will defend your thesis. In the introduction, youmay likewise present a general background information or provide your own motivation forwriting.The Problem. The problem refers to the wider subject or question you are trying toaddress with your paper. You may situate your more specific argument within a broaderproblem that states why your paper is relevant economically, socially and politically.The Thesis. An argumentative thesis statement is not synonymous to the topic of thepaper, nor a statement of fact, nor an observation about the text so obvious or general thatno one would dispute it. Rather, it is an argument or a declaration of what you willaccomplish in the paper. Typically, a thesis takes the form of one to two sentences placedtowards the end of the introductory paragraph.The Roadmap. The roadmap is a plan that follows the thesis statement. It operateslike a preview of the paper’s main points which is presented in logical order. Such a plan ishighly encouraged on the account that it not only lends clarity to the structure of yourargument, but also provides a check for the logical coherence of the points you make.Sample Introduction: Underlying SocioPolitical Processes Behind the 2016 US ElectionA Sociopolitical Analysis Paper written by John Bryden and Eric Silverman (2019)IntroductionDonald Trump’s victory in the GOP primaries and the Presidential race surprisedpolitical analysts and confounded pollsters. Trump achieved this victory via a populistcampaign which incorporated raciallycharged and misogynistic language (Brexit, 2017 andValentino et al., 2018). This unusual campaign shifted the direction of the GOP and the USrightwing toward the farright of the political spectrum (Valentino et al., 2018). An importantfactor behind this success was the campaign’s use of social media communication channels,especially Twitter (Francia, 2017).Twitter, and social media in general, have become important tools for politicians andtheir followers to spread political messages (Bennett, 2003; Farrell & Drezner, 2008; Sunstein,2009; Conover et al. 2012; and Duggan & Smith, 2016). The hierarchical structures commonlyfound in social media networks mean that wellconnected politicians act as hub nodes, withinformation and influence spreading outward over the network. Political parties form clusterswhich reside at the centre of these networks (Farrell & Drezner, 2008; Duggan & Smith, 2016;Vergeer, 2015; and Jungherr, 2016). As intraparty discourse is increasingly taking place online,traditional boundaries between politicians, activists, partymembers and members of the publichave become increasingly blurred.The increased openness of parties moving their political discourse online hasundoubted benefits for transparency and accountability. The concern is the opportunity thisprovides for an external group to target the online presence of a political party, and then startto dictate their political direction. The ability of a minority group to rapidly generate a newpolitical faction and take control of a major political party in this way can cause problems fordemocracy (Hume, 2002; and Linz & Stepan, 1978). Such a novel process would differ radicallyfrom more traditional models of dynamics amongst political elites who occupy differentinternal factions of a party (Hume, 2002; and Harmel et al.,1995), moving to a model wherebyexternal factions play a stronger role (Harmel et al., 1995; Zariski, 1960; and Budge et al., 2010).In this work, the author looks for evidence of an external group influencing the online presenceof the GOP in the run up to the 2016 election and how this can explain the shift in the party’sdirection.The authors’ work seeks to understand how communities of activists might provokesuch a significant shift in the attitudes and rhetoric of a major political party. The authorslooked for how political activists organised themselves and their political messaging, and howthese aspects changed over time. Likewise, the authors did this by examining Twitter data inthe context of the 2016 election, given that Twitter has been shown to reflect US nationalpolling aggregates accurately (Bovet et al., 2018). By studying these changes, the authors cananalyse and document shifting allegiances during the election cycle, and the roles of differentfactors driving these dynamics.* Note: The GOP or the Grand Old Party also refers to The Republican Party.* Disclaimer: In order to adhere to the stylistic elements of academic writing, the authorsmodified the intext citation format and the point of view used in the sample sociopoliticalanalysis paper.A Wellorganized Body. The body of the paper follows the introduction. It is in thispart where you develop your thesis and defend it with detailed evidence. The structure ofthe body should follow the roadmap that you have provided in the introduction. It must bestructured logically so that each point and paragraph flows from the preceding one.In writing the body, you should take into consideration the main defenses that youneed to make in order to substantiate your thesis and should think about what order makesthe most sense; how does each proposition relate to the next; and their relationship to themain thesis. Frequently, the last section of the body of the paper considers alternativeexplanations or counterarguments to yours which you present and then argue against infurther defense of your thesis. This is not always necessary, but in a sociopolitical analysispaper, it is often a good way to defend your thesis from others’ best counterarguments.Sample: Body of a SocioPolitical Analysis Paper titled: Underlying SocioPoliticalProcesses Behind the 2016 US Election  A Sociopolitical Analysis Paper written by JohnBryden and Eric Silverman (2019)An Excerpt of the Body of a SocioPolitical Analysis PaperTo study social and sociopolitical processes, the authors’ method incorporates two keynovel aspects. First, an innovative sampling procedure which allows them to target anddownload key groups of interest. Second, their generated data shows how groups evolve overtime, including the shifting allegiances of group members. Since these data are dynamicnetworks, this approach can enhance their understanding of dynamic social processes. Whilemuch modelling work has been done (Gross & Blasius, 2008; Bryden et al., 2011; Mantovani etal., 2011; Ramos et al., 2015; and Böttcher et al., 2018), the next step is to bring these models todata such as that presented in this work (Lazer et al., 2009; Lazer et al., 2010; Gonçalves &Perra, 2015; and Weaver (2018).Given the selfselecting nature of Twitter groups, the authors may be concerned that thegroups they have found may not truly reflect the position of the party’s base. However, the highlevels of intragroup connections are representative of an interconnected political party(Conover et al., 2012; and Bryden et al., 2013). The behaviour observed in this sample during the2016 election cycle does match the behaviour seen during the rise of the Tea Party and victoryof Trump in the primary elections. The sample here was targeted initially at the Altright, but theauthors found connected accounts which were also associated with the rightwing of both theUS and other countries, suggesting that the sample has captured a wide swathe of rightwingpolitical communication and not just fringe groups or extremist individuals. The sample alsowent beyond the rightwing political sphere and sampled a loosely intraconnected group ofgeneral Twitter accounts (see group marked * in Fig 1), indicating that it had captured acomprehensive picture of those accounts associated with the US rightwing.Social media has continued to expand its influence over the political process (Bennett,2003; Farrell & Drezner, 2008; Sunstein, 2009; Conover et al., 2012; Duggan & Smith, 2016;Vergeer, 2015; Jungherr, 2016; and Bovet et al., 2018). These technologies enable individuals toeasily connect with one another, based on shared political opinions. It follows that they arelikely to be playing a strong role in recent socialpolitical movements by allowing politicians torally disaffected individuals. At the very least, social media data allow the authors to observethe processes behind changing political factions. Understanding these processes, and howthey happen is critically important to understanding modern democracy and voter’s behaviour,and the method marks a step change in how political factions can be identified, analysed, andtracked.* Disclaimer: In order to adhere to the stylistic elements of academic writing, the authorsmodified the intext citation format and the point of view used in the sample sociopoliticalanalysis paper.A Strong Conclusion. The last component of the paper is the conclusion. Here, you shouldrestate the main ideas; summarize the main concepts or key arguments of the paper andreinforce it without repeating or rewording the introduction or body of the paper; draw aconclusion based on the information; and include suggested courses of action and possiblesolutions or recommendations.Sample: Conclusion of a SocioPolitical Analysis Paper titled: Underlying SocioPoliticalProcesses Behind the 2016 US Election  A Sociopolitical Analysis Paper written by JohnBryden and Eric Silverman (2019)ConclusionDonald Trump’s ascent to the Presidency has prompted a great deal of effort amongstpollsters, political scientists and social scientists to unearth the reasons for his unexpectedsuccess. Here, the authors provide a method to follow the shifts in group membership andinfluence that can occur in political parties, and in so doing provide indicators of impendingmoves toward extremism within those parties. The results fit into a picture where the Trumpcampaign’s mobilisation of a targeted group of supporters more than made up for Clinton’sfunding advantage (Böttcher et al., 2018; and Melo (2018): A significant shift in the US politicallandscape. With that in mind, developing a more robust understanding of how political factionscan be identified and analysed can give readers a way to follow these fastappearing andhighlymotivated supporter groups, and their influence on politics.* Disclaimer: In order to adhere to the stylistic elements of academic writing, the authorsmodified the intext citation format and the point of view used in the sample sociopoliticalanalysis paper.POSITION PAPERThe position paper aims to generate support on an issue. It describes the authors’ ororganization’s position on an issue and the rationale for that position. It is based on facts thatprovide a solid foundation for the authors’ argument.In the position paper the authors should use evidence to support position, such asstatistical evidence or indisputable dates and events; validate position with authoritativereferences or primary source quotations; examine the strengths and weaknesses of theposition; and evaluate possible solutions and suggest courses of action.Guidelines in Writing a Position PaperJust like a sociopolitical analysis paper, crafting a strong position paper dependslargely on its structure and understanding of the role of each component of the paper.A Clear Introduction. The paper should begin with introductory paragraphs thatintroduce your readers to the problem or question you are addressing, lay out the thesisstatement or main position, and provide readers with a “roadmap” on how you will defendyour thesis. In the introduction, you may likewise present a general background informationor provide your own motivation for writing.The Clever Hook. The introduction should start with statements written in a way thatcatches your readers’ attention. This part will not only identify the subject of the paper but itwill likewise make the readers want to learn more about the subject.The Identified Issue. The third part of the introduction should show the main issue ofthe paper. Here you give the highlight and interpretation of facts.The Authors’ Position. The introduction should end with a solid thesis statement thatexpresses your position on the topic. The thesis statement essentially serves as aminioutline for the paper. It helps you to assert or articulate your ideas and helps readersunderstand the purpose of the paper.Sample: Introduction of a Position Paper titled: COVID19 Position Paper: AMultidimensional Crisis that Affects All  A Position Paper written by the EuropeanStudents’ UnionIntroductionThe recent outbreak of COVID19 is the gravest health crisis the world has seen in acentury. A significant proportion of asymptomatic carriers of the disease, often with mildsymptoms that can be confused for other illnesses, and a lack of sufficient testing makes itextremely hard to accurately assess the number of infected people. The death toll and thenumber of patients in urgent need of hospital treatment however is still exponentiallyincreasing in most affected areas (The Centre for EvidenceBased Medicine Website, 2020).On Monday the 6th of April (06.04.2020), the World Health Organisation counts 1.133.758reported cases and 62.784 deaths. Alongside with the United States, Europe remains anepicentre of the global pandemic, with 621.407 confirmed cases (World Health OrganizationWebsite, 2020).These figures exploded in a matter of days, putting Europe’s national healthcaresystems in severe distress, with some (such as Italy’s and Spain’s) currently on the verge ofcollapse. One reason for this is the slow pace and delays in taking action on part of theEuropean decisionmakers, with crisis response starting in midMarch while internationalspread started in January and major outbreaks outside China in midFebruary. The currentpolitical answer to ease the pressure on healthcare systems has included travel bans, closureof frontiers (also within the Schengen area), schools, universities, public buildings, andworkplaces. Some of the most severely hit countries enforced a complete lockdown includingthe shutdown of all nonessential economic activities.The implications of this panEuropean lockdown are rapidly transforming a health crisisinto an economic and social crisis. As a segment within wider society, students are hit inmultiple ways while facing potentially extreme social and economic distress deriving from theresponse to the crisis.* Disclaimer: In order to adhere to the stylistic elements of academic writing, the authorsmodified the intext citation format in the sample position paper.A Wellorganized Body. The body of the paper follows the introduction. It is thenerve center of the paper where you develop your thesis and defend it with detailedevidences. The structure of the body should follow the roadmap that you have provided inthe introduction. It must be structured logically so that each point and paragraph flows fromthe preceding one.In writing the body, you should take into consideration the main defenses that youneed to make in order to substantiate your thesis and should think about what order makesthe most sense, how does each proposition relate to the next, and their relationship to themain thesis.Frequently, the last section of the body of the paper considers alternativeexplanations or counterarguments to yours which you present and then argue against infurther defense of your thesis. This is not always necessary, but in position paper, it is often agood way to defend your thesis from others’ best counterarguments.After providing a brief introduction of your organization or country and its historyconcerning the topic, present the following typical contents of a good position paper: the issue and how it affects your organization or country; your country’s/organization’s policies with respect to the issue and yourorganization’s/country’s justification for these policies; statistics to back up your organization’s/country’s position on the issue; actions taken by your organization/government with regard to the issue; reputable international, regional and/or national agencies’ actions that yourorganization/country supported or opposed; what your organization/country believes should be done to address theissue; what your organization/country would like to accomplish in the committee’sresolution; how the positions of other organizations/countries affect yourorganization’s/country’s position; and your best alternative explanations or counterarguments.Sample: Body of Position Paper titled: COVID19 Position Paper: AMultidimensional Crisis that Affects All  A Position Paper written by the EuropeanStudents’ UnionAn Excerpt of the Body of a Position PaperThe European Council of the 26th March 2020: The decision to postpone any decisions.Notwithstanding the urgency of the situation, the Eurogroup failed to come up withconcrete proposals to tackle the crisis and demanded the European Council to decide on theway forward. The European Council on the 26th of March 2020, mainly dedicated to COVID19,endorsed stronger coordination to ease the movement of necessary goods, the pooling ofscientific resources to fight against the virus and the coordination for supplying medicalequipment where needed (Consilium.europa.eu Website, 2020).With regard to the economic issues however, the Council decided to not decide. Instead,it asked the Eurogroup to come up with “proposals  should take into account theunprecedented nature of the COVID19 shock affecting all our countries and our response willbe stepped up, as necessary, with further action in an inclusive way, in light of developments, inorder to deliver a comprehensive response”. Furthermore, the European Council invited thePresidents of the European Council and the president of the European Commission to “startworking on a Roadmap accompanied by an Action Plan in order to develop “a coordinated exitstrategy, a comprehensive recovery plan and unprecedented investment” (Ec.europa.euWebsite, 2020).The European Students’ Union believes that the future of its constituents – the studentsit represents, lies in the wellbeing of the societies they live in, and in the economies, they aregoing to contribute to once they finish their studies. ESU, therefore, welcomes the proposal of apanEuropean coordinated Action Plan for the economic recovery of the continent, and callson the EU to coordinate its efforts with the countries of the wider Europe. On the other hand,ESU regrets the indecisiveness of the European heads of State and government in finding acommon joint proposal for financing the economic management of the crisis and the recoveryof its aftermath. ESU hopes that the given deadline of two weeks will provide the Eurogroupand the European Council with the wisdom to understand that a common economic andfinancial response to the crisis not only fulfils the commitment of solidarity within the EU, but isalso in the best interest of each Member State.The European Students’ Union believes that the coronavirus crisis has shown theimportance of public investment in public goods such as welfare, education, research andhealthcare. ESU, therefore, calls for a central focus to the investment in public goods within theRecovery Action Plan that will be proposed by the Presidents of the European Council and ofthe European Commission. In most of the issues related to public goods, the European Unionhas only supportive competences. The European Students’ Union envisages the RecoveryAction Plan as a coordinated framework of measures with clear PanEuropean objectives. Itshould be codeveloped and implemented by the European Union and the Member States,taking advantage of the economies of scale as well as the interdependencies and the spillovereffects that national measures have on the European economy as a whole.* Disclaimer: In order to adhere to the stylistic elements of academic writing, the authorsmodified the intext citation format in the sample position paper.RESEARCHBASED DOCUMENTED ESSAYA researchbased documented essay is a piece of writing in which the authorsincorporate information such as facts, arguments, and opinions taken from the writings ofauthorities in a particular field.This type of paper presents and supports the thesis by relying on outside orsecondary sources for development. It is similar to a review of literature on the account thatthe authors synthesize and identify the gaps in the writings of authorities in specific fieldsand then generate a new thesis statement out of them.Guidelines in Writing a ResearchBased Documented PaperJust like a sociopolitical analysis paper and a position paper, crafting a strongresearchbased documented essay depends largely on its structure and understanding ofthe role of each component of the paper.A Clear Introduction. The paper should begin with introductory paragraphs thatintroduce your readers to the problem or question you are addressing, lay out the thesisstatement, and provide them a “roadmap” on how you will defend your thesis. In theintroduction, you may likewise present a general background information or provide yourown motivation for writing. The Clever Hook. The introduction should start with two paragraphs written ina way that catches your readers’ attention. This part will not only identify thesubject of the paper but it will likewise make the readers want to learn moreabout the subject. The Identified Issue. The third paragraph of the introduction should show themain issue of the paper. Here, you give the highlight and interpretation offacts. The Authors’ Position. The introduction should end with a solid thesisstatement that expresses your position on the topic. The thesis statementessentially serves as a minioutline for the paper. It helps you to assert orarticulate your ideas and helps readers understand the purpose of the paper.Sample: Introduction of a Researchbased Documented Essay titled: DefyingConvention: An Explanation of China’s Explosive Economic Growth  A ResearchbasedDocumented Essay written by David A. Rezvani, from the Dartmouth’s Institute forWriting and Rhetoric  First Year Writing PortfoliosIntroductionSince the Deng Xiaoping reforms of 1978, China has soared into a rarified atmosphereof explosive economic growth, skyrocketing past the wisdom of conventional economics in itswake. What explains China’s remarkable economic growth despite its centralized authoritarianregime and limited economic freedom? Why has China developed in such a meteoric mannerwhile other countries that lack similar economic freedom remain mired in swamps oftransition? Effective and pragmatic central leadership helped create a developmental state setto drive economic growth by implementing gradual reforms through experimentation ratherthan neoliberal economic shock therapies that plagued similar developing nations such as theSoviet Union in the 1980s. Many scholars have also produced different explanations and twochief contending schools of thought have materialized. In this essay, the two competingschools of thought are designed as Decentralization: Federalism, Chinese Style and ForeignInvestment Driven Growth, which focus on the effects of decentralization and foreigninvestment on China’s economic growth, respectively. In direct contrast, the author will arguefor the instrumental role of centralized leadership as the principal catalyst behind China’sexplosive economic prosperity. China’s extraordinary economic boom was catalyzed by agradual reform process under the leadership of a strong and pragmatic central party.The author will begin the essay by making essential qualifications to the argument forthe critical role of centralized leadership to China’s economic growth. Subsequently, the authorwill focus on discussing the logic and shortcomings of two competing schools of thoughtdesignated as Decentralization: Federalism, Chinese Style, and Foreign Investment. Followingthe refutation of the two chief contending schools of thought, the essay will launch into theargument for critical role of central leadership in the implementation of gradualmarketoriented reforms and their paramount effects on China’s explosive economic growth.Lastly, the strong counterargument related to economic freedom and rule of law in terms ofgrowth and development will be challenged and refuted.Before the author embark upon developing the argument for the role of centralizedleadership behind’s China’s remarkable economic growth, he must make some qualifyingstatements that will dispel immediate counterarguments that do not pertain to the author’sthesis. First of all, the author not advocating for an authoritarian regime in terms of sustainedeconomic growth. Instead, he makes the case that effective and centralized authoritarianleadership was the root cause and catalyzed China’s economic development from 1978 to theearly 2000s. It may very well be the case that a democratic government would be moreconducive to further sustained growth in the future, but that lies outside the scope of this paper.This paper aims to explain why China’s economic development was so extraordinary andsuccessful. Secondly, there is a distinct and significant difference between a centrallyplannedeconomy and the author’s argument for a centralized government with gradual market reformpolicies. A centrallyplanned economy disregards all market principles and economic freedom,while the author’s thesis instead focuses on the role of effective centralized leadership inimplementing gradual marketoriented reforms.In the following section, the author will discuss, analyze, and refute two major schools ofthought that compete against the proposed thesis. By doing so, the author plans to expose theweaknesses of the scholarly arguments in favor of the impact of decentralization and foreigninvestment on stimulating China’s economic growth. In fact, as the author’s discussion andanalysis will clearly show, many of their arguments actually support the author’s proposedthesis of centralized leadership as the principal catalyst behind the remarkable economicgrowth.* Disclaimer: In order to adhere to the stylistic elements of academic writing, the authorsmodified the intext citation format and the point of view used in the sample researchbaseddocumented essay.A Wellorganized Body. The body of the paper follows the introduction. It is the nervecenter of the paper where you develop your thesis and defend it with detailed evidences.The structure of the body should follow the roadmap that you have provided in theintroduction. It must be structured logically so that each point and paragraph flows from thepreceding one. In writing the body, you may consider the two approaches in arranging yourarguments.You can start with the most significant points or with the strongest arguments andend with the least significant arguments. Likewise, you can start by presenting the leastsignificant points and end with the strongest one. It is noteworthy to mention that everyargument should be expressed in a distinct paragraph to avoid confusion among readers.Moreover, since documented articles entails evidence, facts, and opinion, you needto back up your arguments with quotes extracted from a scholarly source to induce thetarget audience’s mind. You should accurately and thoroughly inform the readers what hasalready been published about the issue or others related to it and noted important gaps inthe research. You should provide evidence to support your argument that the readers findconvincing. The paper includes a description of how and why particular evidence wascollected and analyzed, and why specific theoretical arguments or concepts were used.The following structure is typical of a good researchbased documented essay:First ArgumentFirst Piece of Evidence  presents a synthesis and identifies the gap/s in the writingsof authorities in a specific field extracted from a scholarly source, statisticaldata, interviews with experts, and indisputable dates or events;Second Piece of Evidence  presents a synthesis and identifies the gap/s in thewritings of authorities in a specific field extracted from a scholarly source, statistical data,interviews with experts, and indisputable dates or events;Second ArgumentFirst Piece of Evidence  presents a synthesis and identifies the gap/s in the writingsof authorities in a specific field extracted from a scholarly source, statisticaldata, interviews with experts, and indisputable dates or events;Second Piece of Evidence  presents a synthesis and identifies the gap/s in thewritings of authorities in a specific field extracted from a scholarly source, statistical data,interviews with experts, and indisputable dates or events;Third ArgumentFirst Piece of Evidence  presents a synthesis and identifies the gap/s in the writingsof authorities in a specific field extracted from a scholarly source, statisticaldata, interviews with experts, and indisputable dates or events;Second Piece of Evidence  presents a synthesis and identifies the gap/s in thewritings of authorities in a specific field extracted from a scholarly source, statistical data,interviews with experts, and indisputable dates or events;CounterargumentEvidence from Source(s)  present syntheses and quotes extracted from a scholarlysource, statistical data, interviews with experts, and indisputable dates or events as yourbest alternative explanations or counterarguments;Evidence from Sources(s) to refute opposing view/s  present syntheses and quotesextracted from a scholarly source, statistical data, interviews with experts, and indisputabledates or events as your best alternative explanations or counterarguments; andFinally, generate your new thesis statement based on the cited syntheses and gapsas well as from the information that support your thesis statement.Sample: Body of a Researchbased Documented Essay titled: Defying Convention:An Explanation of China’s Explosive Economic Growth  A Researchbased DocumentedEssay written by David A. Rezvani, from the Dartmouth’s Institute for Writing andRhetoric  First Year Writing PortfoliosAn Except of the Body of a ResearchBased Documented EssayAddressing the Lack of Rule of Law and Economic Freedom Counterargument.There is a near consensus in economic literature that shows policies characterized byeconomic freedom promotes high levels of economic growth. Economic freedom entails theessential concepts of “a small government, protection of private property, a wellfunctioninglegal system, free competition and few regulations.” Milton Friedman asserted that “I believethat free societies have arisen and persisted only because economic freedom is so much moreproductive economically than other methods of controlling economic activity.” Hanke andWalters studied the relationship between economic freedom and GDP per capita and found itsignificant and positive.Goldsmith used the EFI (Economic Freedom Index) and showed that developingcountries that protect economic rights tend to grow faster, have higher degrees of humanwellbeing, and have a higher national income. Moreover, people often point to the Asianeconomic powerhouses of Taiwan, Japan, and South Korea as beaming examples of theeconomic growth propelled by economic freedom under democratic regimes, and utilize themin refutation of the role of an authoritarian, central party in economic development, such asthat of China. Taiwan is a multiparty, liberal democracy that is ranked highly in terms ofeconomic freedom and liberty of press as an advanced industrial economy. Similarly, Japan isa multiparty parliamentary representative democratic constitutional monarchy while SouthKorea is democratic constitutional republic – both of which are highincome advancedeconomies.These are all significant arguments against China’s economic growth, as China lacksprivatization of state enterprises, deregulation, and rule of law. The underlying authoritarianpolitical philosophy that eschews democracy, rule of law, and individual rights are in directcontrast to conventional economic wisdom. Yet despite all the apparent contradictions, Chinaexperienced a GDP averaging about 10 percent per year since reforms began in 1978, liftingmore than 500 million people out of poverty. In contrast, the average GDP growth of all ofSouth Asia was only 3.87 % and that of SubSaharan Africa was a miniscule 0.23 % during asimilar timeframe. Clearly, conventional economic wisdoms has its flaws, especially regardingdeveloping economies because 1) the absolute importance of economic freedom and rule oflaw in economic growth has been overstated, and 2) despite their current democratic status,the Asian “Tiger”Economies were all under the rule of a oneparty, centralized regime during the periodof initial and explosive economic growth, further emphasizing the importance of a central party.The role of economic freedom in relation to economic growth and development hasbeen overstated. Empirical studies have found that although greater economic freedom fosterseconomic growth, the level of economic freedom, however, is not related to growth. In thewords of the de Haan and Sturm, “Our findings suggests that more economic freedom willbring countries more quickly to their steady level of economic growth (if they are below thatlevel), but that the level of steady state growth is not affected by the level of economicfreedom.” Even the authors themselves were surprised and admitted that, “this finding is notentirely in line with the view of the proponents of liberalization.” Although the conclusion mightbe shocking at first, it makes perfect sense as reflected by China. China’s gradual reformsstarting in 1978 specifically targeted increasing economic freedoms in the agricultural sectorand market liberalizations for foreign investors, which catalyzed its path to a steadily stronglevel of economic growth. Thus, once that stage was reached, the level of economic freedombecame insignificant.Similarly, in his book dedicated to economic growth histories of developing countriesDani Rodrik concluded, “The onset of economic growth does not require deep and extensiveinstitutional reform.” In other words, institutional reforms such as rule of law, rather than rule ofman, is unnecessary to initiate economic growth. Furthermore, a study by Allen, Qian, and Qian,concluded that “there exist informal financing channels and governance mechanisms, such asthose based on reputation and relationships” to support China’s economic growth. Thus,although China may lack comprehensive formal rule of law mechanisms and channels, therewere extensive informal channels that served as “excellent substitutes for standard corporatemechanisms,” offering investors strong protection.Furthermore, the counterargument that attributes the economic success of the Asian“Tigers” of Singapore, Taiwan, South Korea, and Japan to their democratic regimes ismisguided because all four nations were under centralized, oneparty rule during their initialstage of economic development. Beginning in the 1960s, the GDP growth of the four nationsaveraged 7.5 percent per year for three decades. From 1961 to 1979, South Korea was under therule of Park ChungHee, who established a strong authoritarian rule of a oneparty regime. Ashe said himself, “Democracy cannot be realized without an economic revolution.” Park alsoformulated specific “FiveYear Plans” for gradual economic reforms that were later emulatedby Chinese leadership. Similarly, Taiwan was under the military rule of Generalissimo ChiangKaishek when he implemented gradual market reforms in agriculture and trade. The postWWII economic miracle in Japan was spurred by economic policy under the centralizedleadership of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry that heavily regulateddevelopment. Thus, a World Bank report admitted that the nondemocratic and authoritarianpolitical systems during the early years of development were instrumental in the socalledAsian “economic miracle.” These examples of the economic miracles of the East Asiancountries further support my argument for the critical role of centralized leadership in initialeconomic development, analogous to the authoritative parenting style that raises the mostsuccessful children.Lastly, the author must briefly refute Paul Krugman’s 1994 article, The Myth of Asia’sMiracle, which generated significant publicity as Krugman boldly asserted that the impressivegrowth rates of the East Asian economies were a myth and unsustainable because the rapidgrowth was achieved “in large part through an astonishing mobilizing of resources” and “rapidgrowth in inputs.” However, Krugman failed to realize that the astonishing mobilization ofresources is only capable because of the centralized regimes that have the power to authorizethis type of massive resource mobilization. Furthermore, his argument that there was no sign ofincreased economic efficiency in terms of total factor productivity is flawed, especially appliedto China, as Bosworth and Collins found TPF growth in China that was higher than thedeveloping world as a whole. This was a result of gradual reforms that focused on improvingeconomic efficiency through acquisition of foreign technology and efficient resource allocation.Thus, Krugman’s argument clearly has its limitations, especially when applied to the case ofChina.* Disclaimer: In order to adhere to the stylistic elements of academic writing, the authorsmodified the intext citation format and the point of view used in the sample researchbaseddocumented essay.A Strong Conclusion. The last component of the paper is the conclusion. Here, you should: restate the main ideas; summarize the main concepts or key arguments of the paper and reinforce itwithout repeating or rewording the introduction or body of the paper; draw a conclusion based on the information; and include suggested courses of action and possible solutions orrecommendations.Sample: Conclusion of a Researchbased Documented Essay titled: Defying Convention:An Explanation of China’s Explosive Economic Growth  A Researchbased DocumentedEssay written by David A. Rezvani, from the Dartmouth’s Institute for Writing andRhetoric  First Year Writing PortfoliosConclusionThis documented essay aimed to answer the essential question: What explains China’sremarkable economic growth during the reform era? To begin, the two chief contendingschools of thought designated as Decentralization: Federalism, Chinese Style and ForeignInvestment were refuted and shown to be inappropriate and insufficient when applied toanalysis of China’s extraordinary economic growth. The argument of the decentralizationschool is flawed because both the effect of decentralization on economic growth and theextent of decentralization in China have been overstated and overexaggerated. The fatalweakness of the foreign investment school of thought was exposed by examining thefundamental dependency of foreign investment upon the quality of human capital in terms ofstimulating economic growth. In reality, the principle driver behind China’s remarkableeconomic growth was the gradual reform process under the leadership of a strong andpragmatic central party. Effective central leadership created a developmental state set to driveeconomic growth by implementing gradual reforms through experimentation rather thanneoliberal economic shock therapies. The gradual marketoriented reforms under pragmaticcentral leadership are the sparks that ignited China’s explosive economic boom, in defiance ofall conventions.* Disclaimer: In order to adhere to the stylistic elements of academic writing, the authorsmodified the intext citation format and the point of view used in the sample researchbaseddocumented essay.communication for academic purposesall right so for us to better understanduh whichpurposes we are actually trying to servein this particularcontext let us try to operationalizethe term academic communication rightso academic communicationaccording to learn.org involvespresentingideas effectively and formally in ascholastic environment okaythis is also called scholarlycommunication and this refers to themethods of communicationthat are highly structured and generallyonly usedin pedagogical settings so if there isone thingcommon amongst these definitions is thatacademic communication is thecommunication we usein scholastic contexts or pedagogicalcontexts in shortin school okay so in an academicenvironmentso if we talk about your academic papersthat you submit to your professors ifyou talk about your research papersif you talk about your problem solutionessays all thesepapers that you submit in the context ofthe learningand teaching paradigm then that isactuallyacademic in nature so one challenge ofstudents is that they are having a hardtimearriving at an academic paper becausenumber one they don't know how to storeit okaynumber two they don't know what to putinto it so i came up withseveral steps or guidelines on how toarriveat an academic paper okay which are thefollowing okay the first oneyou have to select a topic okay whatevertopic thatis based of course on the prompts thatare given by your professors or by ourteachers or by your tutorsokay so if you've got a general topic ora prompt that was given to you by yourprofessors or your teachersthen you have to narrow it down to aparticular topicselecting a topic for an academic paperis very important why becausethis gives your paper the directionokay this guides your paper and thisactuallyyou know limits your paper into whatshould beput into it without the topic you knoweverything is just so messy and youdon't really know where to start okaysecondly once you've already formulatedthe topicyou have to formulate a working thesisstatement so when we say thesisstatementthis is your main idea okay sowhat particular main idea do you want towork onfocus on that okay because if you don'tformulate your thesis statement at thevery beginning you don't really knowwhere to focus on that's why a lot ofstudents are having a hard timetrying to write or draft the body oftheir paper because it's not reallyfocused at all okay you don't have amain idea that you want to supportyou don't have a main idea that you wantto elaborateyou don't want you don't have a mainidea that you want to defend okayso in that case uh you're really goingto have to have a hard time butif you have a main idea if you have thethesis statement alreadyand the thesis statement is like a topicsentence that stands on its ownwhen you read it you already have thepicture of what this paper is going tobe aboutso it does not only give you as a writerthe the ease of doing things it alsogives the readeruh what to expect okay in your paperso it's going to be easy to read on thepart of the readers and for youeasier to write because you already haveyour key points in that particularthesis statement okayso again select a topic and then fromthat topic narrow it down to what do youwant to say about the topic okay whatyou want to say about the topic that'syour claimokay and that is actually part of yourthesis statementright and then once you've already haduhonce you've already formulated yourthesis statement you've got to prepareyour preliminary questions so what arethese these are the questions that youask yourselfand that readers might probably ask whenthey woulduh read your paper already okay soin preparing your preliminary questionsyou gottatry to expect okay what the readers arethinking about this topic or this thesisstatement and then i have toask like um questions on how to expoundon this particular thesis statement likehow how do i expound thishow do i elaborate this how do i supportthis okaywhat are the counter arguments thatmight be presented uhand so on and so forth so once you'vealready set these questions then findsources okay find sources to answerthe same questions that you set forthokay soin this case um you have to reallydocument your sources okay so every timethat you find your sourcesyou try to like organize theminto into sim themes and then you try toorganize them intothe questions that are being answeredokay and soas you take down you organize your notesalready okay so if you found sourcesthen try to design a system sorry designa systemthat would work best for you okay i'mnot really implementing anyyou know noting schemes in here but itreally depends onlike how you do it yourself because umeach and every one of us when we studywhen we find sourceswe've got our own styles in trying toyou know understand or reading andtrying touh try to sort our sources out souh it's really up to you how you takedown notes and organize your notes okayso once you've already gotten sourcesand organize your notes and you're nowready tooutline your paper okay so you knowoutline your paperso you've now all you you've got allthese madeall these ideas already you've you'veread a lot about your topic and soyou're ready now to organize your ideasokay you don't need to put them allin your paper okay that's what thethesis statement is for and that's whatthe outline isis for you've got to just choose whichone works best for your paper and youknow outliningis a very important thing to do ratherthan you knowright jumping right into writing becausewhen you outline you get to seewhere what the flow of your paper isgoing to be about and you get to reallydissectthe paper into the different partsso an outline in short serves as yourguideand it serves as the skeleton of thepaper so it's like a frameworkof the paper already that you wouldfollow and that you would just putmuscles on okay so after you outlineof course you draft your paper you'renow ready to draftyour paper uh because you already havesomething to followokay and then of course after you draftthe paper of course draftingis not like a onetime bigtimeuh activity okay drafting can take timeand drafting can meanseveral rewritings okay and then ofcourse your devicethen you edit okay now once you'verevised and editand edited you've uh you have to checkfor the documentationokay and again referencing is veryimportant sointext citation and references pagewould be very important in any academicpaper that you dookay remember that your sources orciting your sources is a mark ofyou know an intelligent writing andyou've justgot to cite your sources um to avoidany copyright issues and to you knowjustbe honest about your work so it's likeintellectual honesty being observed andit's forthe credibility of the paper as wellokay souh one very uh specific type of anacademic paperis a research paper and everybody doesthat okayfrom your senior high school junior highschool and of courseum college okay tertiary educationrequiresa lot of research papers whatever yourmajor is whatever your program isthere would be a research paper that'sgoing to be assignedso of course we all know that a researchpaper can be quantitative andqualitativeand it consists of the following partsof course you have literaturereview and literature review requires alot of citation and referencing and youall know thatright and then methodology where you getto discussyour methods of course like how are yougoing to be arriving atthe answers and how are you going to begathering data for it etc etcand then you have findings analysis andrecommendations of course in theanalysisyou've got to crossreference whereinyou're also going to useother resources or references or authorsthat justify or provide support foryour findings as well and those that areactually are in conflict with it okayso a research paper is bloodybut it actually something that is athingin the academ is crucial in the academicsetting especiallyfor um teachers and learners alikeacademic writing at its core okay wehavethe paragraph okay why because no matterhow longour writing is or no matter how long apaper isit all boils down to its nitty grittieswhich are the paragraphs a good paperbanks on good paragraphs that compose itokay so let's talk about a goodparagraph okay a good paragraphhas unity okay it has coherence it hasbrevity and it has emphasis okayso very very selfexplanatory i knowthat since elementary englishyour professor has been emphasizing onthese things okay that when you write aparagraphit has to be unified it has to becoherent it has to bebrief and it has to be emphasizingsomethingso unity of course there has to be unityof ideasand there has to be cohesion okay socohesion we achieve thisthrough cohesive devices the words thatwe use in order to linkideas together in order to link orbridge thesentences together in a paragraph okaycoherence is more on thethe supporting ideas so whether you havea topic sentenceand whether this topic sentence is beingsupported by the rest of the ideaswithin the paragraphokay brevity uh you have to be concisebut preciseand emphasis of course you've got tohave umthe primary message that you underscorein that particular paragraph so a goodparagraph is very necessaryand it's crucial okay that you actuallywrite them well okaynow you can either write a paragraphin a narrative form in a descriptiveform in an expository formor in an argumentative form so of coursea narrative paragraphtells a story or tells an event it tellsa series of eventsand it's also what happened or whathappens descriptiveparagraph can you know detail uhdescriptions of a particular placeperson event idea or whateverand sometimes they're mixed togetherbecause in a narrative you can actuallyincorporate a lot of descriptive detailsright an expository paragraph meanwhileis meant to informto disseminate an information to explainokay a phenomenon or what have youand expository paragraphs are not meantto be opinionated soit has to be factual and has to bebacked upwith ideas right and argumentative ofcoursethis is where you have a stand and youdefend that standwhether you are pro or anti whether youwantto change the status quo or not whetheryou want to propose something or notokay so uh these are the paragraphs thatyou can utilizeokay in order to come up with youracademic papers okaynow if you may ask whether an academicpaper has to have justone among these wellit can have a mix of these uhkinds of paragraphs depending on theneed of the academicpaper okay so let us nowdiscuss academic writing style okay sosince we're talking about academicacademic communication we now have todiscusshow you serve that purpose of academiccommunication okay so of course we usethe academic writing style and when wesayacademic writing style i've already madeit easier for you toremember so you just have to rememberfishokay like fish fish you just have torememberfish okay so fish and that stands forour style for academic writingokay f for formality i for impersonalitys for structure and h for hedging okaylet us now go through each one of thisstyle okaylet's first have formality okay so formelody don't use contractions of coursecontractions like aren't isn'tum wouldn't okay these are constructioncontractions okaydon't is a contraction so don't use itin an academic paperall right so um please use the fullspellings or full terms or words forthese particular um contractions okaynever ever use contractions for academicpapers and then don't use colloquiallanguage orslang like for example instead of sayingkid you saychild instead of saying my old man yousay father okay so these are colloquiallanguage that areyou know kind of reserved for informalor casual situations okay always writeas concisely as you can again brevityokay brevity because people in theacadem don't haveso much time and reading a lot ofacademic papersespecially for example on the part ofthe tshirts can be verycan be very taxing right concisely butpreciselypeople in the academy would appreciatethat in an academic paper you don't beataroundbush okay so just go straight to thepoint what are phrasal verbs these arethe verbs that arecomposed of two or more words so forexample get offuh throw away so instead you have to usetheir one word counterpart because thatwould sound more formallike for example you don't say uh lookinto you say investigate okay sosomething like thatnext avoid common but vague wordsand phrases so for example you don't saythe idea is nice okay you have toclarify what nice means you have todetail ityou have to be very um accurate about itokayand then you don't say for example youdon't say longyou say the size of it okay in anacademic writingnext is avoid overuse of bracketsdon't use exclamation marks or dashesand avoid direct questions and don't useetc okayso um you see that in an in an informalsetting orin a casual setting we use you knowwe overuse the exclamation markespecially if we want tohint that we are actually excited and weare actually happyokay so that's actually okay if it'sa casual conversation casual text casualchatbut don't ever use that in an academicpapernext uh always use capital lettersletters appropriately and never use thetype of language you syntax it okay i'vealreadymentioned this one okay socapitalization is very importantso you have to capitalize all first youknow words of a sentence and capitalizeall theproper nouns okay so there you goplease read this okay the twosentences and please do compare themokayfirst one if usersknow how search engines work they candeal better with themokay second an understanding of thefundamental operations of the searchenginewill provide improved user interfaceokay so which one is more formalof course this one right this one ismore formal compared to this one becausethis usesformal language okayso instead of like this one which isaccusingsome sort this one is objectivein nature rather than subjective rightokay secondly herethe weeklong power outages used up thestore's entire stock of batteriesit's actually almost the same thing inherebut the only thing that's different isthe word consumedokay so again as i've already discussedearlierplease avoid the use ofphrasal verbs okay so here used up is aphrasal verband in this sentence it's actuallychanged intoconsumed which sounds a bit more formalokay next the newly installed system hasenabled offices to throw awayoutdated files again this one is thesame thingexcept for the one word counterpartof the word throw away so instead ofthrowaway you saythis card okay which sounds more formalfor that matter next she had to go towork although she wasn't okayyet and then here she had to go to workalthough she was notokay yet so what did what did i sayearlier we have to avoidabbreviations and contractions okaylike these things okay so here all thosespelled fully and was not spelled fullyandokay was spelled fully okay so i hopethese examples concrete examples helpyou understand what we've been talkingabout okaylet's proceed to the next style which isimpersonalstyle okay so an academic writing papershould observe in personalitynow how do we observe in personalitywe have to generally avoid of coursepersonal language and personal languageuses the personal pronouns like iwe as you okay so avoid the first andsecond person point of viewsof pronouns because it will sound veryvery personalso instead for example of saying ibelieve that this research is okayyou say it is believed that thisresearchserves its objectives etc etc okaynext never use emotive language becauseagainwe have to observe him personalitybecauseit's going to be more objective if wedon't useemotive language okay next avoid beingtoo dogmaticyou know um don't preach do notsound like a nagging mother okay do notsound accusingetc etc consistently use evidence fromyour sourcereading and reference this correctly soagainin an academic paper it's inevitablethat you're going to haveto find sources and you're going to haveto back up your ideas with sources andfactsand you have to credit your sources okayapa references avoid sexist language sofor example don't saychairman um instead ofreferring to doctor as a he you can havehe or she ornow you can have they as a singularreference so in theseventh edition of apasurprisingly you can use they or themas singular so for example you can sayum when a doctor prescribes a medicinethey can inform the patient about itokay so instead of saying he or she orhe alone you can say they referring tothe doctor to any doctor sothey is used as singular already okayand you canactually do that as well okay and thenavoid he she himself herself okay ialreadyum told you about that okay let's havesome examplesso you've got if you don't know how tonavigate through an ecommerce siteyou will waste a lot of time today a lotof peopleare having ecommerce because of thepandemic they've become very resourcefuland they're resorting into ecommerceokay onlinebusiness etc so um i thought about thisokayand then this one is the more formalversion of itnavigating through an ecommerce sitecan be timeconsumingfor those who may be unfamiliar with theprocessso you see how much different and howmuch more formal this iscompared to this okay so here we use thepersonal pronoun youokay you and then we'll waste a lot oftime so this sounds veryum you know very offendingso um changing it into this kind ofsentencewould mean more objective and it wouldmeanless personal or impersonal because youdon't reallyuse here personal pronouns instead thisis the third person point of viewokay let's have some more themarketplace is growing so fast andpretty soon you think the governmentwould address the in resolve issuessurrounding ecommerce nowwhich are a lot of issues okay and thennotice how this is transformed into amore formal structurethe rapid expansion of the marketplaceis more than enough reason for thegovernment to immediately address theunresolved issues surroundingecommerce okay so again this oneuses you and is as if talking to youpersonally okay and this one is actuallyoh sorry and this one is now more formalbecauseit's not talking to you rather it'smore objective and more uhdivorced of feelings and a personalityso we're done with f and i now we'regoing to haves or structure okay somake sure you write in completesentences and you know what that meansokayalways have a subject and a predicate inyour sentence to make it completeokay divide your writing up intoparagraphsand again paragraphs dictate what kindof paper you're gonna produce whetherit's good or badokay or something in between okay andthen of course use connecting words andphrases to make your writing explicitand easy to follow againcoherence and cohesion next check yourgrammar and spelling carefully of courseplease practice proofreading every timeyou are about to submit a paper or youaredone with the paper that is veryimportantand then of course use nominalizationsand passives so what are nominalizationsthe normalizations arenoun based forms of words later on i'llshow you an exampleand then passives of course we don'tfocus on the doer instead we focus onthe receiver of the actionso let's have theseexamples okay the economy did notperform well the performance of theeconomy was thisthis small okay so of course this one ismore formalbecause it uses the nominalized versionof this verbso did not perform is a verb and thenhereperformance is a noun so we nominalizethis verb phrase into just a oneword noun okay so this one isperformancethis one is perform performance so thisone with the nominalizedversion sounds more formalokay next the company can use the costsavings to add value to their productand this one is an active sentencebecause the doeris the company now if we transform thisinto a passive statement it would bethe cost savings can be used to addvalue to a company's productsand it is more formal and of courseit's in passive form okay so um alwaysremembera passive uh construction sounds moreformalmost of the time lastly would be hedgingand hedging is the use of cautiouslanguageso we have to really you know providesafety nets for our safety nets forwhat we are claiming because sometimesif we are too extreme about it or if weare too sureif we are committed about what we'resaying then someum there could be some sort of problemsespecially if we're notreally sure about it so we use hedgingso for exampleuh used in personal subjects uhin personal subjects the like what isaid earlier as an exampleyou can instead of saying i believe thatthis research isis correct or is valid then you say itis believedthat this research is valid so it it isan impersonal subject for that matterokaynext use passive verbs so again passiveverbs arefocused on the on the receiver of theaction instead of the doer so you canjust transform any sentence into apassiveof construction okay use verb such asimagine suggest claim supposeokay especially if you're not reallysure about it or it's not an establishedfact okay use attitudinal signals suchas apparently arguably ideally strangelyunexpectedlybecause using these hedging deviceswould actuallyhint your attitude towards your readernext use verbs such as would could mightmay becausethese are the modals that providethe levels of possibility of somethinginstead of sayingthis is going to happen you're going tosay thismight happen or this could happen andthat changesthe idea a lot okay so be verybe very clear about the idea that youwould want to put forward in yourwritingokay and then use qualifying adverbssuch as sumseveral a minority of a few many toavoid making overgeneralizations let's have some examplesof a hedging devices so we have modalnounsthese are the possibility of theprobability of certainty offjust presumption of like cut off andthen um whatever you want to putin there or the idea that you would liketo add in there modal adjectives youhave possible probable certainmodal theory will would may mightcan could must should other verbs ofcourse appear assumeindicate cm suggested and the claw thatclause plus combination so thisindicates that blah blahthese studies suggest that blah blahblah it seems probable that blah blahblahthis would uh appear to be blah blahokay so you get the gist right you getthe point that you have tohedge your claims you have to hedge yourideasokay in an academic paper lastly okay wehaveapa citation there are citationguidelines that are provided online thatyou can check for yourself and you canum have as your ready reference so thisone is a very credibleguidelines for apa citation onlinewritingpurdue.eduso you can just click on this and thenyou're going to be navigated to theirsite the same thing that i
