Science Technology and SocietyHistorical antecedents in which social considerations changed the course of science and technologyHISTORICAL ANTECEDENTS OFSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYSCIENCE concerted human effort tounderstand, or tounderstand better, thehistory of the natural worldand how the natural worldworks, with observablephysical evidence as thebasis of thatunderstanding. done through observationof natural phenomena,and/or throughexperimentation that triesto simulate naturalprocesses under controlledconditions.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Science: knowledge about or study of the naturalworld based on facts learned through experimentsand observation. Technology: science or knowledge put into practicaluse to solve problems or invent useful tools.HOW IS SCIENCE USED IN TECHNOLOGY? Science is the pursuit of knowledge aboutthe natural world through systematicobservation and experiments. Throughscience, we develop new technologies. Technology is the application ofscientifically gained knowledge for practicalpurpose. Scientists use technology in all theirexperiments.THE ROLE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYTHE ROLE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY1. alter the way people live, connect, communicate andtransact, with profound effects on economic development.2. key drivers to development, because technological andscientific revolutions underpin economic advances,improvements in health systems, education and infrastructure.3. The technological revolutions of the 21st century areemerging from entirely new sectors, based on microprocessors,telecommunications, biotechnology and nanotechnology.Products are transforming business practices across theeconomy, as well as the lives of all who have access to theireffects. The most remarkable breakthroughs will come from theinteraction of insights and applications arising when thesetechnologies converge.4. have the power to better the lives ofpoor people in developing countries5. differentiators between countries thatare able to tackle poverty effectively bygrowing and developing theireconomies, and those that are not.6. engine of growth7. interventions for cognitiveenhancement, proton cancer therapyand genetic engineeringSOCIETY The sum total of ourinteractions ashumans, including theinteractions that weengage in to figurethings out and tomake things a group of individualsinvolved in persistentsocial interaction, or alarge social groupsharing the samegeographical or socialterritory, typicallysubject to the samepolitical authority anddominant culturalexpectations.WHAT DOES SCIENCE TECHNOLOGY ANDSOCIETY MEAN? Science and technology studies, or science,technology and society studies (STS) is the study ofhow society, politics, and culture affect scientificresearch and technological innovation, and howthese, in turn, affect society, politics and culture.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY STUDIES STS is a relatively recent discipline,originating in the 60s and 70s, followingKuhn’s The Structure of ScientificRevolutions (1962). STS was the result of a “sociological turn” inscience studies. STS makes the assumption that scienceand technology are essentially intertwinedand that they are each profoundly socialand profoundly politicalHOW SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYAFFECT SOCIETY. Science and tecnology have had a major impacton society, and their impact is growing. By making life easier, science has given man thechance to pursue societal concerns such asethics, aesthetics, education, and justice; tocreate cultures; and to improve humanconditions. Science influences society through itsknowledge and world view. Scientific knowledgeand the procedures used by scientists influencethe way many individuals in society think aboutthemselves, others, and the environment. Theeffect of science on society is neither entirelybeneficial nor entirely detrimental.HOW SCIENCE CAN HAVE AN EFFECT ONSOCIETY?HOW SCIENCE CAN HAVE AN EFFECT ONSOCIETY? Science influences society through itsknowledge and world view. Scientificknowledge and the procedures used byscientists influence the way manyindividuals in society think aboutthemselves, others, and the environment. The effect of science on society is neitherentirely beneficial nor entirely detrimental.WHAT IS THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SCIENCEAND SOCIETY? The impact of science and technology onsociety is evident. But society also influencesscience. There are social influences on the directionand emphasis of scientific and technologicaldevelopment, through pressure groups onspecific issues, and through generallyaccepted social views, values and prioritiesHISTORY OF SCIENCE ANDTECHNOLOGYIN THE PHILIPPINES Science and technology in the Philippines hadexperienced periods of intense growth as wellas long periods of stagnation. The main managing agency responsible forscience and technology is the Department ofScience and Technology. Numerous national scientists have contributedin different fields of science including Fe delMundo in the field of Pediatrics, EduardoQuisumbing in the field of Plant taxonomy,Gavino Trono in the field of tropical marinePhycology, Maria Orosa in the field of Foodtechnology and many morePRESPANISH ERA Even before the colonization bythe Spaniards in the Philippineislands, the natives of thearchipelago already hadpractices linked to science andtechnology. Filipinos were already aware ofthe medicinal and therapeuticproperties of plants and themethods of extracting medicinefrom herbs. They already had an alphabet,number system, a weighing andmeasuring system and acalendar. Filipinos were alreadyengaged in farming,shipbuilding, mining andweaving. The Banaue Rice Terraces areamong the sophisticatedproducts of engineering by preSpanish era Filipinos.SPANISH COLONIAL ERA The colonization of thePhilippines contributed togrowth of science andtechnology in the archipelago. The Spanish introduced formaleducation and founded scientificinstitution. During the early years ofSpanish rule in the Philippines.Parish schools were establishedwhere religion, reading, writing,arithmetic and music wastaught. Sanitation and more advancedmethods of agriculture wastaught to the natives. Later the Spanish establishedcolleges and universities in thearchipelago including the oldestexisting university in Asia, theUniversity of Santo Tomas. The Galleon Trade haveaccounted in the Philippinecolonial economy. Trade was given more focusby the Spaniard colonialauthorities due to theprospects of big profits. Agriculture and industrialdevelopment on the otherhand were relativelyneglected. The opening of the SuezCanal saw the influx ofEuropean visitors to theSpanish colony and some Filipinos were able to studyin Europe who wereprobably influenced by therapid development ofscientific ideals brought bythe Age of Enlightenment.AMERICAN PERIOD The progress of science and technology in thePhilippines continued under American rule of theislands. On July 1, 1901 The Philippine Commissionestablished the Bureau of GovernmentLaboratories which was placed under theDepartment of Interior. The Bureau replaced theLaboratorio Municipal, which was establishedunder the Spanish colonial era. The Bureau dealtwith the study of tropical diseases and laboratoryprojects. On October 26, 1905, the Bureau of GovernmentLaboratories was replaced by the Bureau ofScience and on December 8, 1933, the NationalResearch Council of the Philippines wasestablished. The Bureau of Science became the primaryPOST COMMONWEALTHERA During the 1970s, which was under the time ofFerdinand Marcos' presidency, the importancegiven to science grew. Under the 1973 Philippine Constitution, Article XV,Section 1, the government's role in supportingscientific research and invention wasacknowledged. In 1974, a science development program wasincluded in the government's FourYearDevelopment Plan which covers the years 19741978. Funding for science was also increased. TheNational Science Development Board was replacedby the National Science and Technology Authorityunder Executive Order No. 784. A Scientific Careerin the civil service was introiduced in 1983.AMERICAN PERIOD Science during the American period was inclined towardsagriculture, food processing, forestry, medicine andpharmacy. Not much focus was given on the development ofindustrial technology due to free trade policy with the UnitedStates which nurtured an economy geared towardsagriculture and trade. In 1946 the Bureau of Science was replaced by the Instituteof Science. In a report by the US Economic Survey to thePhilippines in 1950, there is a lack of basic information whichwere necessities to the country's industries, lack of supportof experimental work and minimal budget for scientificresearch and low salaries of scientists employed by thegovernment. In 1958, during the regime of President CarlosP. Garcia, the Philippine Congress passed the Science Act of1958 which established the National Science DevelopmentPOST COMMONWEALTHERA In 1986, during Corazon Aquino's presidency, theNational Science and Technology Authority wasreplaced by the Department of Science andTechnology, giving science and technology arepresentation in the cabinet. Under the Medium Term Philippine Development Planfor the years 19871992, science and technology'srole in economic recovery and sustained economicgrowth was highlighted. During Corazon Aquino's State of the Nation Addressin 1990, she said that science and technologydevelopment shall be one of the top three priorities ofthe government towards an economic recovery.POST COMMONWEALTHERA In August 8, 1988, Corazon Aquino created thePresidential Task Force for Science andTechnology which came up with the first Scienceand Technology Master Plan or STMP. The goal ofSTMP was for the Philippines to achieve newlyindustrialized country status by the year 2000. The Congress did not put much priority in handlingbills related to science and technology. The SenateCommittee on Science and Technology was one ofthe committees that handles the least amount ofbills for deliberation.POST COMMONWEALTHERA Former Science and Technology secretary,Ceferin Follosco, reported that the budgetallocation for science and technology wasincreased to 1.054 billion pesos in 1989 fromthe previous year's 464 million pesos. However, due to the Asian financial crisis,budget allocation for the years 1990 and 1991were trimmed down to 920 and 854 millionpesos respectively. Budget allocation wereincreased to 1.7 billion pesos in 1992PARADIGM SHIFTS IN HISTORY a typical example or pattern of something. a distinct set of concepts or thought patterns,including theories, research methods, postulates,and standards for what constitutes legitimatecontributions to a field.WHAT IS A PARADIGM SHIFT? a fundamental change in approach or underlyingassumptions. a concept identified by the American physicist andphilosopher Thomas Kuhn a fundamental change in the basic concepts andexperimental practices of a scientific discipline. Kuhnpresented his notion of a paradigm shift in his influentialbook The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962).WHY ARE PARADIGM SHIFTS IMPORTANT? Paradigm shift is anotherexpression for moresignificant changeswithin belief systems. Within philosophy ofscience this concept issometimes consideredimportant and issometimes given greatattention withineducation.KUHN'S PARADIGMTHOMAS SAMUEL KUHNThomas Samuel Kuhn(/kuːn/; July 18, 1922 –June 17, 1996) was anAmerican physicist,historian and philosopherof science whosecontroversial 1962 bookThe Structure of ScientificRevolutions wasinfluential in bothacademic and popularcircles,THE STRUCTURE OF SCIENTIFIC REVOLUTIONS a book about thehistory of science bythe philosopherThomas S. Kuhn. its publication was alandmark event in thehistory, philosophy,and sociology ofscientific knowledge.THE KUHN CYCLE a simple cycle ofprogress described byThomas Kuhn in 1962 inhis seminal work TheStructure of ScientificRevolutions. In Structure Kuhnchallenged the world'scurrent conception ofscience, which was thatit was a steadyprogression of theaccumulation of newideas.KUHN’S PARADIGM Kuhn showed this viewpoint was wrong. Science advanced the most by occasional revolutionaryexplosions of new knowledge, each revolution triggered byintroduction of new ways of thought so large they must becalled new paradigms. Kuhn argues that paradigms change in scientificrevolutions. Scientists go through a crisis and transition toa new paradigm, a new way of seeing the world. It is notpossible to compare paradigms and it is not possible to saywhether one is more right than the other. Kuhn argues that science is not moved by a rationalprocess but more by a social unity. In contrast with Popperthen Kuhn presents a descriptive theory in which Kuhn tryto observe the factual scientific fields in order tounderstand how they function in practice.THE STEPS OF THE KUHN CYCLEPRESCIENCE. also called the preparadigm stage, the prestep to the mainKuhn Cycle. In Presciencethere is not yet a model ofunderstanding (the field'sparadigm) mature enoughto solve the field's mainproblems. The field has no workableparadigm to successfullyguide its work.NORMAL SCIENCE identified and elaboratedon by Thomas SamuelKuhn in The Structure ofScientific Revolutions, isthe regular work ofscientists theorizing,observing, andexperimenting within asettled paradigm orexplanatory framework. where the field has ascientifically basedmodel of understanding(a paradigm) that works.MODEL DRIFT The model ofunderstanding startsto drift, due toaccumulation ofanomalies, andphenomenon, themodel cannot explain.MODEL CRISIS the most important stepof them all in the KuhnCycle. The Model Driftbecomes so excessivethe model is broken. Itcan no longer serve asa reliable guide toproblem solving.Attempts to patch themodel up to make itwork fail. The field is inanguish.. MODEL REVOLUTION begins when seriouscandidates for a newmodel emerge. It's arevolution because thenew model is so radicallydifferent from the old one. a field's model ofunderstanding isundergoing revolutionarychange. The old modelfailed, which caused theModel Crisis step. TheModel Revolution stepbegins when one or morecompeting new modelsemerge from the crisis.PARADIGM CHANGE also called a paradigm shift, Earlier steps have createdthe new model ofunderstanding (the newparadigm). In the Paradigm Changestep the new paradigm istaught to newcomers to thefield, as well as to thosealready in it. When the newparadigm becomes thegenerally accepted guide toone's work, the step iscomplete. The field is nowback to the Normal Sciencestep and a Kuhn Cycle iscompleteVIDEOS/ YOU TUBE Stephen Colbert’s interview with Neil Tyson World’s Greatest inventions Philippine Great Inventions Scientific Reductionism What is a Paradigm?PARADIGM SHIFTS IN HISTORYHISTORICAL EXAMPLES OF PARADIGMSSOCIETY / ETHICS Slavery is acceptable to nowslavery being unacceptable Role of Children in Society Child labor was, now is notacceptable ·Male Superiority  Beatingwives was, now is notacceptable Reading and the Controlover information  Inventionof the printing press (& othermajor inventions) allowed forthe elites control overreading / writing to end. The Reformation brokemonopoly of CatholicChurch and Christian's"relationship" with God.NATURAL SCIENCES Darwin’s theory of evolution Plate Tectonics— create a physical model of theEarth's structure Albert Einstein’s spacetime is not fixed or objective—subject to observer’s state of motion relative to otherobject.HUMAN SCIENCES Psychology: SigmundFreud—we are notfully in control of ourbehavior—asubconscious partoperate Economics—governmentintervention ineconomy is nowaccepted.THE ARTS1. The Realist paradigm: the purpose of artis to copy reality.2. Shakespeare's impact on drama / theater3. Jazz & rock revolutionizing musicModule 1: Historical Antecedents in the Course of Science and TechnologyWhat will you learn from this module?Have you ever wondered about the petty things from the past civilization? like how they build asolid and stable infrastructure, how they come up with some of the most groundbreakinginventions like clock, battery, system of writing, even the cosmetics?If yes, this module is for you.In this module, you will learn the about the ancient history and the early civilization.You will study the different technological advancements during the ancient times, which include some ofthe achievements of the early civilizations such as Sumerians, Babylonians, and Egyptians. This module is composed of four lessons. Lesson 1: Ancient Times Lesson 2: Medieval/Middle Ages Lesson 3: Modern Times Lesson 4: Philippine InventionsAfter studying this module, you should be able to;1. Explain how science and technology affected the society and environment and vice versa;2. Identify inventions and discoveries that changed the world over the course of history and;3. Discuss the scientific and technological developments in the Philippines.INTRODUCTION Science comes from the Latin word meaning ‘knowledge.’ It refers to a systematic and scienctia,methodical activity of building and organizing knowledge about how the universe behaves throughobservation, experimentation or both. Technology, for its part, is the application of scientific knowledge, laws, and principles to produceservices, materials, tools, and machines aimed at solving realworld problems. It comes from the Greek rootword meaning ‘art, skill, or cunning of hand.’ techne, According to Albert Einstein, “it is not knowledge if you only derived it from books but if you can deriveit on numbers, it is considered knowledge.” Because numbers are the application of knowledge andtechnology is the application of numbers and science.LESSON 1Let’s Read 1 Historical Antecedents in the Course of Science and TechnologyIn the ancient times, people were concerned with transportation and navigation, communication, andrecordkeeping, mass production, security and protection, as well as health, aesthetics, and architecture. Transportation was significant during that time because people were trying to go places and discover newhorizons. They are travelling to search for food and find better locations for their settlements. They alsotravelled to trade their surplus goods in exchange for things that they lacked. Communication was also essential in their endeavors to discover and occupy new places. They needed away to communicate with the natives of the areas they visited so as to facilitate trade and prevent possibleconflicts. The increase in size and number of nations connoted increased demand for food and other basicnecessities, this condition also implied that the people must be able to produce food at a given time andspace since resources were getting scarcer as more people struggled to share the basic necessities. Thepeople thus needed a form of technology that would enable them to increase food supplies and othersurvival needs.SUMERIAN CIVILAZATION Sumeria is located on the southernmost tip of ancientMesopotamia between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers inthe area later became Babylonia, Sumerians, are knownfor their high degree of cooperation with one another andtheir desire for great things. They are not contented withthe basic things that life can offer. This desire pushedthem to develop many things connected with science andtechnology.CUNIEFORM One of the major contributions of the Sumerians isthe development of the first writing system known ascuneiform. It is a system that utilizes word pictures andtriangular symbols which are carved on clay usingwedge instruments and then left to dry. Cuneiformallowed the Sumerians to keep records of things withgreat historical value or their everyday life. It is alsoone way of passing their traditions, cultures, and theirlegacy.URUK CITY Another important contribution of the Sumerians is the City of Uruk. It is a great wonder not only becauseit is considered to be the first true city in the world but also for the way it was erected. There were nobuilding stones in the location of this city and lumber was limited, making the construction a big challenge.The Sumerians we re able to build the city using only mud or clay from the river, which they mixed withreeds, producing sunbaked bricksa true engineering feat. They used the bricks to make houses thatprotected them from the harsh weather and to build a wall around the city that prevented wild animals andneighboring raiders from entering.THE GREAT ZIGGURAT OF UR Another engineering and architectural feat of theSumerians is the Great Ziggurat of Ur. TheZiggurat, also called the mountain of God, wasbuilt in the same manner that they constructed theCity of Uruk. Without much building materials, thestructure was constructed using sunbaked bricks.The Ziggurat served as the sacred place of theirchief god, where only priest was allowed to enter.IRRIGATION AND DIKES As population increase, so did the demand for food. The Sumerians were challenged to mass produceitems but the elements in the environment seemed uncooperative. It was difficult to get water form therivers, thus they could not maintain farmlands. Some groups had scarce water supply, while others hadproblems with flooding caused by the river. As a solution to this dilemma, the Sumerians created dikes andirrigation canals to bring water to farmlands and at the same time control the flooding of the rivers. Thismethod was considered as one of the world’s most beneficial engineering works.SAIL BOATS Another challenge to the Sumerians was transportation. At thattime, the wheel was not yet invented; the main mode oftransportation was trough waterways such as rivers and seas. Boatswere used to carry large quantities of products and were able to coverlarge distances. However, they wanted to discover faraway lands tosettle since the population was getting larger, and boats were notenough to accommodate more people and products. They needed amode of transportation that did not require much human resource.Some resources attribute to the Sumerians the invention of sailboats to address their increasing demands.Sailboats were essential in transportation and trading as well as infostering culture, information, and technology.WHEEL In the latter part of their history, the Sumerians were able to invent the wheel since the specialized toolsneeded to create it were already available. The first wheels were not made for transportation but for farmwork and food process. With the use of the wheel and axel, mass production was made easier. Farmers wereable to mill grains with less effort in less time.THE PLOW Another farm technology invented by the Mesopotamians is the plow.The plow was invented to dig the earth in a faster pace. As the plowbeaks the ground, the farmer would just drop the seeds and farm workwould already be doneROADS In order to facilitate faster and easier travel, the Sumerians developedthe first roads. With this work, the flow of traffic became faster andmore organized. They made the roads with the same technology theyused in making sunbaked bricks that they laid down on the ground The Sumerians does not have any degree in engineering or in architecture, but they were able to buildbuildings, road, infrastructure and many more that are still solid at stable until now.BABYLONIAN CIVILIZATION Babylonian civilization emerged near the Tigris andEuphrates river. The Babylonians were great builders,engineers, and architects. Babylonia as I have mentionedemerge near the river because water is one of their basicnecessities. Water brings food for them, brings energy andbeauty, and it also enable them to travel from one place toanother. With the use of river, they are able to exchangetheir goods to other places and they can also use it to conquer and also to escape. One of their major contributions is the hanging garden of Babylon,one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. Today, people canonly marvel at the beauty of the famous Hanging Gardens of Babylonform the stories of historians and paintings that portray the place. Itwas said to be a structure made up of layers upon layers of gardensthat contained several species of plants, trees, and vines. However, nophysical evidence has been found to prove the existence of theHanging Gardens of Babylon. Its exact location is unknown.EGYPITAN CIVILIZATION Another early civilization famous for it legacy is the Egyptian civilization located in North Africa. Manystories tell about the engineering feats of the Egyptian especially regarding infrastructures established bythe Pharaohs.PAPER OR PAPYRUS Aside from the Sumerians, Egyptians also developed a system ofwriting, they were able to make writing easier for the world. Before,they are using tables made from clay tablets but they find it fragile,heavy, and delicate to handle. Hence, the Egyptian invention of paperor papyrus was a welcome development. They were able to processthe plant in order to produce thin sheets on which one could writedown thingsINK When Egyptians invented the papyrus or the paper, engraving ceased to be used in writing. As a result,the Egyptians invented ink by combining soot with different chemicals to produce inks of different colors.HEIROGLYPHICS Like Sumerians, the Egyptians also developed a systemof writing using symbols, known as hieroglyphics.Although some say that hieroglyphics was adapted from theearly writing system established in Mesopotamia as a resultof trade between civilizations the Egyptians believed thatthis writing systems was provided to them by their gods. Their way of writing is also the root cause why manyscientists are confused about their history. Hieroglyphics isnot just an ordinary writing of text, but it is also consistingof many different symbols and illustrations that may leadthe scientist to misinterpretation of data or meaning. Hieroglyphics was the language that tells the modernworld of the history and culture of the ancient Egyptians. Their records were wellpreserved since theywere carved at the walls of pyramids and other important Egyptian structures.COSMETICS AND WIG Cosmetics nowadays are essentials in buildingyour self confidence but did you know that thecosmetics that we are using right now is inventedby the Egyptians? Although cosmetics in themodern times are used to improve and highlightthe facial features of a person, their function inancient Egypt was for both health and aesthetic. 5 For example, Egyptians wore kohl around the eyes to prevent and even cure eye diseases. Kohl wascreated by mixing soon or malachite with mineral galena. Another cosmetic invention of ancient Egyptian is the wig. Nowadays, wigs are used to enhance theappearance of people who are balding or those who want to try new hair trends. Meanwhile, during theancient Egyptian times, they were used for health and wellness rather than for aesthetic purposes. Theyused it to cover their head from the harmful rays of the sun.WATER CLOCK/CLEPSYDRA Another important ancient Egyptian contribution is the water clock. This deviceutilizes gravity that affects the flow of water from on vessel to another. Thisinvention also leads to our modernday clock through series of improvement doneby the succeeding civilization.GREEK CIVILIZATION Many students are actually excited about the Greekcivilization because they think about the Greek Gods andGoddesses but spoiler alert, they are just myths. Greece isan archipelago in the southeastern part of Europe. Thismakes their country difficult to conquer since it is anarchipelago, they can hide or ambush the enemy fromvarious island. Europe is known as the birth place ofwestern philosophy, some of the major achievements of theGreeks include indepth works on philosophy and mathematics. Greek civilization has contributed much tothe world especially in the fields of science and technology. The first proponents of an atomic theory were the Greek philosophers Leucippus and Democritus in thefield of science and on the field of math they have Pythagoras who was perhaps the first to realize that acomplete system of mathematics could be constructed and later called Pythagorean Theorem.ALARM CLOCK One of the most utilized gadgets today was invented by ancientGreeks is the alarm clock. Although the alarm clock during thattime does not resembles the presentday clocks, the purpose wasjust the same to tell an individual when to stop or when to start. This invention according to the scientist resembles that of theEgyptians but this is more complex but more accurate. 6WATER MILL Watermills were also considered as one of the most importantcontributions of the Greek civilization to the world. They werecommonly used in agricultural processes like milling of grainswhich is necessary form of food processing during that time.Mass production of rice, cereals, flours and the like becamecommon with the help of watermills. Modernday watermills alsohelp for converting mechanical energy into electricity which alsoleads to invention of windmill and turbine.ROMAN CIVILIZATION The Roman Empire was perceived to be the strongest political and social entity in the west. Politicalbecause of its huge population and territory and social because of religion. It was considered to be thecradle of politics and governance during the period. Because the Roman Empire was so large, othercivilizations looked up to it as their model in terms of legislation and codified law. That is why many othercivilizations were conquered by the Roman Empire because of its existing laws which make it morecomplex and more stable compared to the other civilizations or empire. The following are the inventions and innovations of the Roman Empire. Newspaper Bound Books or Codex Roman Architecture Roman numerals All of the abovementioned inventions are still existing in this presentday civilization and are used in theentire world. The most famous is the newspaper which is globally used by different races.CHINESE CIVILIZATION The Chinese civilization is considered the oldestcivilization in Asia, if not the world. Also known as the middle kingdom, China is located on the far east of Asia. It was very famous among the other ancientcivilization because of its silk trade. The following are contributions of Chinese civilization to the world Silk industry Tea production Worlds Famous Great wall of China Gun powder China even until know controls the production of almost everything. Most of the things like gadget,furniture, weapon, medicine, basic necessities, any many other are made in China. That is why Chineseeconomy is getting bigger and its control over the international politics is indeed very impressive.LESSON 2MEDIEVAL/MIDDLE AGES The start of the middle ages was marred by massive invasionsand migrations. Wars were prevalent during this time. As such,great technology was needed in the field of weaponry,navigation, mass food and farm production, and health. Mostinnovative minds came from this period to control the increaseof trade and commerce among nations.PRINTING PRESS Johann Gutenberg was able to invent the printing press, a morereliable way of printing using a cast type.This general invention soon evolved to be the mechanical printing presswhich was eventually used all over the world. The printing press wasinvented to address the need for publishing books that would spreadinformation to many people at a faster rate.MICROSCOPE Growing population is caused massive migration and urbanizationduring the period. More and more people are transferred to pollutedand populated urban areas which resulted in more people gettingsick and needing medical attention. To develop the proper medicinesfor the illness, experts must understand the sickness throughinvestigation that is why the inventedthis device to magnify the smallthings that are invisible to the nakedeye.Page | 8TELESCOPE Since the Middle Ages was also known as the age of exploration, the need for nautical inventions washigh. Considering the vast and empty oceans that separated lands, ship captains needed to see far and widefor them to navigate or avoid dangers at sea.WAR WEAPON Since wars were widespread during the MiddleAges, great development in the weaponrytechnology also occurred. One of the keys to gainvictory during this time are well crafted bows,spears, even armors which are used in close rangehandtohand combat and for openarea battles.LESSON 3MODERN TIMES The booming world population during the nineteenth centuryonwards demanded that more goods be produced at a faster rate.People needed efficient means of transportation to trade moregoods and cover a larger distance. Machines that required animalsto operate must thus be upgrade. Faster and easier means tocommunicate and compute should be developed to establishconnections between and among nations. Because of these, thebirth of various industries takes place. However, due to massiveindustrialization, the modern times again faced more complicatedproblems. 9PASTEURIZATION As people were able to develop better means of production to meet the needs of the population, foodpreservation and food safety became an issue. The challenge to keep manufactured from deteriorating wasgreater for dairy products, especially milk, since they usually spoiled faster. If this food is not consumedimmediately after the production, it might lead to food poisoning, diphtheria, and typhoid fever. Louise Pasture, a French biologist, microbiologist, and chemist, found a way to solve the problem. Heinvented pasteurization, the process of heating dairy products to kill the harmful bacteria that allow the mso spoil faster. Through this process, milk could be stored and consumed for a longer period.PETROLEUM REFINERY Samuel M. Kier was able to invent kerosene by refiningpetroleum. Kerosene was later on referred to as the“illuminating oil” because it was used at first to providelighting to homes. After some time, it was applied for heatingpurpose. Nowadays, kerosene is still present as still used bymany people for powering automobiles, factories, and powerplants, among others.TELEPHONE What do you think is the first word ever spoken on thetelephone? It is “Mr. Watson, come here. I want to see you”Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone and it was oneof the most important inventions at that time. But before, theconnection is very limited, the commoners cannot afford tobuy one, and it is not that reliable in terms of stability andconsistency. Nowadays, telephones are one of the necessitiesin this fastchanging world. Millennials can no longer livewithout it according to time magazine. 10CALCULATOR Although an earlier version of the calculator had alreadybeen developed, circumstances in the modern times required afaster way to compute mire complicated equations. Thecreation of modernday calculator did not only pave the wayfor easier arithmetic calculations, but also resulted in thedevelopment of more complex processing machines likecomputer.LESSON 4PHILIPPINE INVENTIONS Despite being considered a developing country, the Philippines also contributes to the globaladvancement of science and technology. We have a group of inventors called the Filipino Inventors Societywhich aims to remedy the needs of the consumers by inventing useful machines that could help us in oureveryday living. These inventors are supported by the DOST or the Department of Science and Technology. Some of the world renounce Filipino inventions are the following: Videoke Salamander Amphibious Tricycle Salt Lamp Medical Incubator Mosquito Ovicidal/Larvicidal Trap System Ejeepney 11These inventions are being recognized and being used all over the world. According to the FilipinoInventors Society Secretary Fortunato de la Pena, “we may lack of resources, but our minds are filled withknowledge” which is true. As a Filipino, we know how to be patient and how to curl when the blanket isshort meaning, we find ways in every problem that we face.chapter one historical antecedents in the course of science and technology so what are the learning outcomes for this chapter one to explain how science and technology affected the society and environment and vice versa two identify the inventions and discoveries that change the world over the course of history and three discuss the scientific and technological developments in the philippines so here again in the overview of science technology and society we are going to talk about how science and technology affect the people culture and society in how science and technology respond to the need of society in the past and in the contemporary time during ancient times the most encountered problems were the following just remember the acronym tc shamar t stands for transportation and navigation c stands for communication s stands for security and protection h stands for health a stands for architecture and engineering m stands for mass production a stands for aesthetic r stands for backward keeping during ancient times there were problems in terms of transportation and navigation still up to now in our country we still have problem and difficulty in terms of transportation especially in highly urbanized areas like metro manila in the past transportation was significantly important so up to now people need a mode of transportation for them to be able to travel to other places to search foods if there will be no available foods on their current area and to find new places for their safety if there will be danger also there was problem in terms of navigations it was very difficult for them to navigate areas because there's no ways yet in the past to direct them point to point and maps were still not highly accurate and some roads were still unavailable next problem encountered was communication there were no cell phone satellite internet yet in the past and there's no common language yet but today we have such as english chinese mandarin and spanish in the past it was very difficult for them to communicate they were using signals like light reflection smoke for them to be able to make a signal to their home base especially if there will be an upcoming danger or invaders also the uspgen as a carrier of information as mode of communication for them to be able to deliver a message in a faster and easiest way to keep record was very difficult during ancient times they were using mud play for them to england backwards there was also difficulty to transport each record because of its heaviness and fragileness to increase in size and number of nations pronounced increased demand for food and other basic necessities to produce foods in mass to produce clothing and mass or other necessity things were so difficult in the past because they don't have the technology yet that we have been using today in the factory due to difficulty in mass production there was also difficulty in producing weapons in armors for the safety of each nation or tribe in the world if there will be invaders it was very difficult for a small country or area to secure their tribes or nation stronger nations tended to invade weaker ones so they could take much needed resources if a nation has a developed weapons and armors it was considered a major achievement to conserve life was one of the problems encountered during ancient times different illnesses and diseases both natural and manmade cannot diagnose or treat well because in the past microscope to see bacteria and certain diseases was not invented yet certain pharmaceutical drugs were not yet discovered stair technique and appropriate healthcare practice were still on the process so science and technology played a major role in the discovery of cures to if not the prevention of illnesses architectural designs in the past were considered a major technological advancement most of the nations and tribes during asian times has their own architectural design for the reason that it establishes their nation's identity but the problem was there's no scientific way or architectural designs that can be made in relation to highly scientific engineering difficulty in constructing a bigger and stronger infrastructure was observed during ancient times most of the people became slave and died during ancient times for them to construct an infrastructure such as an egyptian pyramid there was no available technology at the speed up to measure and calculate things in building infrastructure however there were some structures built during ancient time that still exist and continually amaze people because of its manmade infrastructure people were not contended in terms of beautifying only infrastructure and surrounding they made it more complicated by putting some decoration on your body to make presentable and appealing and this is called aesthetic we were not done with the problems encountered during ancient times let's not proceed to the major technological contributions made by sumerians babylonians and egyptians sumerians were known as very cooperative in the development of things in relation with science and technology babylonians were known as weight builders engineers and architects that contributed a lot in the world and lastly egyptians were known because of their infrastructure and engineering that still amaze people today let's now move on to their contributions now proceed to sumerian's contributions just remember the acronym is wr c stands for uniform u stands for uroc city p stands for the great cigarette of or i stands for irrigation in dykes s stands for sailboats w stands for real and r stands for roads let's talk about uniform uniform was the first lighting system they used wedge instrument to carve word pictures and triangular symbols on a clay then they left it to dry this was used in order for them to communicate and for the purpose of record keeping next one is urop city which was the first true city in the world they built it using moderate clay for them to be protected from the harsh weather wild animals invaders for entering their territory this was made to address the problem in safety and protection next the great cigarette of ur was built in the same way urocity was constructed the great cigarette of war is also known as the mountain of god it can be compared to the churches that we have today next they invented irrigation and dikes to increase mass production of foods they also built this to bring water for farmland and to control plotting this was invented for the purpose of mass production in terms of foods the first mode of transportation was not real but sailboat they need this because people in the past cannot cross rivers and seas this was invented to solve problems in sea transportation the first wheel was made not for transportation but the milgrains this was invented to solve a problem in mass production in terms of food supply roads were invented to address the problem in terms of transportation and navigation in order to facilitate faster and easier travel particularly to search for foods and to find better places they build roads using sun big bricks we're now done with the sumerian contribution let's now precede the babylonian contribution and just remember letter h h stands for hunger gardens of babylon it was considered one of the seven wonders of the ancient world it was made of layers of plants trees and vines however its exact location is unknown because some said it was just a product of imagination and some said it was destroyed by war erosion or earthquake hanging gardens of babylon was considered as the greatest engineering and architectural achievement of the ancient time that is almost impossible to replicate let's now proceed to the egyptian civilization what are the egyptian contributions just remember the name be wick p stands for paper or papyrus w stands for wing w stands for water club or club sigra h stands for hieroglyphics i stands for inc and c stands for cosmetics egyptian was not the first one to develop the first writing system but they made writing easier by developing a paper made from papyrus papyrus was a plant found in egypt that grew abundantly they made record and shape keeping and also record transportation easier because paper made from papyrus is lighter compared to uniform after they develop paper from papyrus they invented ink to be used in writing on a paper here they combine different chemicals to produce an ink egyptian also invented a system of writing called hieroglyphics which use symbols it is usually seen on egyptian pyramids they believe that this writing system was provided to them by their gods egyptians also invented cosmetics but the purpose of this was not only for aesthetic but also in terms of health they believe that wearing coal around the eyes can cure and prevent an eye disease egyptians rig was developed not for aesthetic purposes but for health reasons they were it to protect their skull from harmful rays of the sun because wealthy egyptians shaved their hands also wig was used to prevent the accumulation of head lice another one they were big because it allows heat to escape freely rather than putting a scarf on their head lastly they invented water clock or klebsidra this device utilizes the gravity that affects water flow from one vessel to another this was used to measure time by determining how much water remainedchapter 1 historical antecedent in the course of science and technology part 2. so now proceed to the greek civilization what are the greek contributions just remember the acronym ow a stands for alarm clock w stands for water mill first is the alarm clock the purpose of this alarm clock was to tell an individual when to start and when to stop usually this alarm clock was used to signal the start and end of a lecture which made use of sun or water that dropped into drops that sounded the signal of the alarm second is the water mill this water mill addressed the problem in mass production the difference between the wheel of submarine and the water mill made by the greek is that the wheel of sumerian is manually operated while the water mill of the greek requires access to rivers or flowing water which melts green automatically in mass next is roman contribution just remember the achar name enban n stands for newspaper b stands for bound books or codex a stands for architecture and stands for new metals the first newspaper developed by the roman were known as gazettes these gazettes were engraved in metals or stone tablets which publicly display when egyptian was able to invent paper from papyrus it was now easy for the roman to publish news for the attention of the roman citizens one of the contributions of roman is codex or bounduc the first cover made by the roman was made of wax but unfortunately it was replaced by an animal scheme because it proved to be stronger and longer lasting another contribution made by the roman is roman numerals however this old system was no longer widely used today because of its numerical limitations lastly is the roman architecture this structure made by the romans still amazed the people today because of architectural design that proved to be stronger and majestic that can be withstood with the hard elements of the environment some of the infrastructures in the philippines were based on this architectural design such as in the supreme court post office and national museum let's now proceed to the chinese civilization and their contributions just remember the acronym sgt s stands for silk g stands for gun power g stands for great wall of china and t stands for t production one of the contributions made by the chinese is silk this silk addressed the problem of mass production in terms of paper and clothing another one is the tea production this addressed a problem in terms of health chinese believes that this tea is good for health furthermore china became known for its tea production exports aside from its silk production next is the great wall of china which is the only manmade infrastructure that can be seen from the outer space this was constructed for safety and protection especially to keep out for invaders from entering china these walls were made of stone bricks wood earth and other materials lastly is the gun powder this gun powder was accidentally made from mixing charcoal sulfor and potassium nitrate instead of creating an elixir of life they accidentally invented a black powder that produces a large amount of heat and gas in an instant let's now proceed to the most innovative contributions made in medieval period just remember the aha name pmtw p stands for printing press m stands for microscope t stands for telescope w stands for war reference first is the printing press this addressed a problem in mass production in terms of communication particularly in newspapers this printing press utilized wooden machines that extracted uses from proofs attached to this particular printing press was a mental impression of leather next is microscope this addressed the problems in terms of health the invention of microscope was the key in the discovery of new means in preventing and curing illnesses such as bacteria in this stage doctors can now see what causes certain sickness or diseases third is the telescope using this invention was one of the key factors to address problems in navigation this has been used by the ship captains that needed to see far and wide areas in order to avoid dangers at the sea lastly the war weapons this address the concern in safety and protection of course soldiers need to protect themselves this was addressed by creation of an iron body armors however these iron body armors were so heavy and limits the movement of the one who is wearing it this problem was eventually solved by the invention of chainwheel armor which are lighter compared to iron body armors next is the modern times just remember the acronym ptc p stands for pasteurization b stands for plutonium refinery t stands for telephone c stands for calculator pasteurization is a process of heating dairy products to kill harmful bacteria that causes certain diseases also this process allows their product to be stored and consumed for a longer period of time next is petroleum refinery petroleum refinery was able to be invented through refining of kerosene python refineries change crude oil into petroleum products for use as fuel walls for transportation heating paving roads and generating electricity which is widely used today the discovery of telephone addressed a problem in terms of communication especially the important daytoday transaction that must be discussed and addressed at the fastest time during emergency this invention was one of the major inventions made during modern times lastly the calculator this invention made computation and arithmetic calculation easier the creation of this calculator paved the way in the development of more complex processing machine like computer let's now move on to the last part of the chapter the philippine inventions just remember the ahra name azemi s stands for salamander amphibious tricycle s stands for sultan m stands for medical incubator m stands for mosquito of his idol larviz zygon trap system and e stands for egyptian first let's talk about the salamander and previous tricycle this invention can cross not only flooded streets but also reversing lakes it may also utilize the travel from one island to another island this invention was made to address the problem in transportation particularly in highly urbanized planet area such as in the city of manila valencia city and marikina next invention is salt lamp also known as sustainable alternative lighting this invention was made to utilize materials abundant in the philippine salt water this salt lamp is an ecofriendly light source that emits no toxic gases moreover this is specially made for filipinos in rural areas with no power supply and filipinos who have resorted in using candles and cursing lumps that carry certain risks of fire hazards third is the medical incubator made by dr fedor mundo who is a filipino pediatrician and the first asian woman admitted into harvard medical school dr del mundus incubator was made from cheap materials that includes placing a native laundry basket inside a bigger one hot water bottles were inserted between these baskets to provide oxygenations this incubator was an innovation particularly made in rural areas in the philippines fourth is the mosquito opicidal or larvaezidal trap system invented by the department of science and technology this crab system is made from organic ingredients that are lethal to mosquito but safe for humans because using insecticide is harmful not only for humans but also in the environment lastly we have the electronic jeepney or ejeepney this modern type of chimney utilizes an electricity instead of more expensive diesel this modern type of transportation is ecofriendly that emits no smoke or noisegood day class especially to your news good day also to you too i am teacher ethan muschiano and i'm your lecturer today in this learning platform we are going to talk about historical antecedents in which social considerations change the course of science and technology but before knowing everything about this topic i want you to follow that five word that stands for focus interested gain hurricane and think it will help you again our topic for today is all about historical antecedents in which social consideration change the course of science and technology have you ever imagined how science changed societies okay because of science we have very very useful tools that we use today and that is technology well natural world is the human's home science aims to people to understand better about natural world and how natural world works for us and because of science observations and experimentations they discovered natural processes like weather technologies matters and everything that science tells us okay now i'm going to discuss the difference between science and technology as you can see in the picture that i've showed it tells about science the apparatuses elements matters experimentations and etc sciences about the knowledge or the study of the natural world based on facts learned through experiments and observation so science seeking facts to prove that's why they conducted experiments and observation as you can see also in the picture that i've showed it tells about technologies it shows the gadgets that works to people technology is the result of science experimentation that makes the life of people easier next is understand how science is used in technology science the pursuit of knowledge about the natural world through systematic observation and experimentation through science we develop technologies technology is a application of scientifically gained knowledge for practical purpose scientists use technology in other experiments science has a big impact and contributions in technology because the materials that are used in technology is experimented by science okay let's move to the rule of science and technology these are the rule of science and technology for people one of the rule of science and technology is to change the way people live connect communicate and transact with profound effects on economic development the second one is the key drivers to development why because technological and scientific revolution underpin in economic advances improvement in health systems education and infrastructure the third one is the technological revolution of the 21st century are emerging from entirely new sectors based on micro processors telecommunications biotechnology and nanotechnology time to time on the technological revolution of 21st century is become visible from these sectors the fourth rule is they have the power to better leave a poor people in developing countries science and technology helps us to have an improvement to ourselves and make things possible the last rule of science and technology is differentiators between countries that are able to tackle poverty effectively by growing and developing their economies and those that are not scientific and technology doesn't only effects on poverty but in all studies of life of people in society okay let's move to the connection of science and technology in society but first let us define society the sum total of interaction as human including the interactions that we engage in the figure thinks out and to make things a group of individuals involved in persistent in social interactions a large social group sharing the same geographical or social territory typically subject to the same political authority and dominant cultural expectation you know what society becomes society if it is has a school buildings businesses consist of many people political authorities cultures and other aspects of society what does science and technology and society mean science and technologies or science technology and society studies or sps is a study of how society politics and culture affect scientific research and technological innovation and how this in turn affects society politics and culture we all know that we are surrounded by technologies that made by science so it might has an effect on the development of societies science and technology studies sts makes the assumption of technology are essentially intertwined in that they are each profoundly social and profoundly political sts was a result of a sociological turn in science studies or interpreting the theoretical framework of science studies sts relatively rats and disciplined originating in the 60s and 70s following cons the structure of scientific revolution in 1960 how science and technology affects society science influences through its knowledge and worldview scientific knowledge and procedure used by scientists influenced the way many individuals in society think about themselves other and the environment science and technology had a major impact on society and their impact is growing how science and technology affect society science influences through its knowledge and worldview scientific knowledge and the procedure used by the scientists influence the way many individuals in society think about themselves others and the environment science and technology had a major impact on society and their impact is growing science is the root of everything we have now but take note society also influences science science has given a personal chance to pursue societal concerns such as ethics ethics is a set of moral obligation that defines right and wrong here individuals are obliged to identify what is the right and why is the wrong the second one is aesthetic a study of mind and emotion in relation to the sense of beauty it means that what we saw same as we think and interpretation of its beauty comes the third one is education science education gives students the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in school and beyond science taught us how things started and how we apply it and connect it in our aspect of life the last and fourth one is justice science and justice share the common goal of seeking out facts but their results often diverge it means that facts of science is different from facts of justice how science can have an effect on society scientific knowledge and the procedure used by scientists influence the individual the way they think most of people are following the belief of science what they saw they think more scientific explanation about it sometimes they're curious about the things or the materials used to create things second is the effect of science and society is neither beneficial nor detrimental for instance the technologies or machineries we use we can take advantage of these things but sometimes it will damage or harm the people so this is the last part of my topic is all about relationship between science and society the impact of science in the society is evident because it is actually happened there are social influences on the direction and emphasis of scientific and technological development through pressure groups on specific issues and through generally accepted social views values and priorities society is a place where science make things possible society also the place where science makes a procedure for the development and science is also a place where science educate people before i end this video i want to share a petition made by sir winston churchill tells that those who do not learn history are doomed to repeat it it means that those people who doesn't learn history me experience difficulties to repeat it so that is the end of my lesson hope you learned something from me from me are all these kneesHISTORICAL ANTECEDENTS IN WHICH SOCIAL CONSIDERATIONS CHANGED THECOURSE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYINTRODUCTION An antecedent is described as a precursor to the unfolding of life. Historicalbackgrounds in science and technology are therefore influences which paved foradvanced and sophisticated advancements in science and technology that arepresent today. The development of science during ancient , middle ages andmodern ages will provide more information on changes that led to thedevelopment of science and technology.COURSE OUTCOMESAfter the completion of the lesson on Historical Antecedent on the developmentof Science and Technology , the students should be able to: discuss the events that took place during the ancient, middle and modernages that led changed to the course of science and technology recognize the works of several scientists in the development of science andtechnology.COURSE MATERIALS IN THE WORLD: ANCIENT, MIDDLE AND MODERN AGESANCIENT TIME – ancient history covers the period 3000BC AD 500.MIDDLE AGES – began around 476 A.D may span roughly 1,000 years endingbetween 1400 and 1450.MODERN AGES – It is also referred to as Modernity, is the post Medieval area,beginning 1500 to present, wide span of time marked in part by technologicalinnovations, urbanization, scientific discoveries and globalization. The first Inklings of Science (From Ancient Times to 606 B.C)EGYPTIANS*Egyptians medicine was trial and error Egyptians doctors learned that if you covered an open wound with moldybread, the wound heal quickly and clearly Modern science tells us that certain bread molds produce penicillin, achemical that kills germs that infect germs. Egyptian doctors gave a seeds of poppy to relieve the patient’s pain The study showed that Poppy seeds contain both morphine and codeinewhich are excellent painrelieving drugs and are used today/ Egyptians medicine became the most respected form of medicinePapyrus – an ancient form of paper , made from a plant of the same name As early as 3.000BC , Egyptian formed of paper named as Papyrus.Papyrus is a thick type of paper made from the pith of the papyrus palnt ,the Cyperus papyrus . Papyrus can also refer to a document written onsheets of papyrus joined together side by side and rolled into a scroll anearly form of book. The invention of the ancient form of paper revolutionized the wayinformation was transmitted from person to generation easily donecompared to clay tablets or smooth rocks been used by Egyptians,Sumerians and other races/. Other cultures Mesopotamians were making pottery using the first known potter’s wheelHorse drawn chariots were being used. _ 1000 BC , the Chinese were using compasses to aids themselves in their Travels. The Science begins to Emerge ( 600 BC to 500 A.D)THE GREEKSAs far as historians can tell . the first true scientists were the Ancient Greeks Thales studied the heavens and tried to develop a unifying terms thatexplain the movement of the heavenly bodies (the planets and the stars)He predicted certain planetary event , he predicted the short termdisappearance of the sun The prediction he made is actually what we called today is a solareclipse, an event in which the moon moves between the earth and thesun, mostly blocking the sun from view. Anaximander was interested in the study of life. He was the first scientistwho concluded that all life began in the sea and some sort of a fish. Hisidea was later resurrected by other scientists , most notably CharlesDarwin and is today called evolution, Anaximenes however, believed that all things were constructed of airsince what he knew that air was the most basic substance in nature.>>His ideas led to the introduction of the Greeks concept on that things in nature is made by single substance ATOMS/ Leucippus a Greek scientist who lived up to 150 years further developedthe concepts of Atoms that all matter is composed of little unit known asatoms, he was named as the Father of Atomic Theory Democritus believed that all matter was similar to sand. Even though apiece of wood appears to be solid, it is in fact made up of little individualparticles which he called it atoms. Democritus was not well as accepted inhis time, but later scientists utilized his ideas and modified them. Two Novel Greek Scientists were recognized AristotleThe father of the life sciences who wrote volumes of works on many things.Including Philosophy , mathematics, logics and physics.He was the first to make a large scale attempt with the classification ofanimal and plants. Although Aristotle is noted to contribute large studies nscience not all the ideas were without flaw . One was his idea onspontaneous generation, he believed that living things spontaneouslyformed from nonliving things.  ArchimedesHe was one of the scientists who demonstrated how closely science andmathematics. He was best known for his works on fluid. He was the first toshow how fluid may float or not in liquid, THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE STALLS FOR A WHILE ( 500AD to 1000 (A.D ) The Roman Empire had a great deal of influence throughout the world.Rome disliked science much, did not mind inventions especially those thatmade work productive, but a little use for the explaining the world aroundus. As a result the real science was actively discouraged at most part of theworld. Alchemy is one of the best examples in which science been recognized inthis era. The Alchemists were the most wanted to find a means by whichlead could be transformed into gold. The alchemists began mixing andrecording , many interested things were observed , they mixed mixturesand did the process in trial and error . They never tried to use theirobservations to conclude about natural works, instead they were contentto just write their observations and move to the next experiment searchingfor the next substance they could make.  Science thrives on the free exchange of ideas from one scientist to another, this put another road block for the science progress. Many historiansrefer to this period as the Dark Ages. The progress in science depends onscientists, government and culture. Still the progress in science not quiteobserved, due to Romans remained active in discouraging science . TheRoman empire preferred to concentrate on inventions, the crumblinggovernment caused trade and communications to become more difficult .scientific progress slowed even more.  Both Arabs and Chinese during this time period were involved in makingcareful studies of the heavens. They made observations that were muchmore detailed and precise than those of the Greek Scientists. For example> Chinese records from 1054 A. D include detailed observations of aphenomenon that Chinese scientist called a guest star in the heavens,They recorded in 1054 that a star that had not been seen before suddenlyappeared in a certain constellation. >> Modern scientists have been able to use those observations todetermine that the Chinese had seen a supernova, which is actually theexplosion of a star. The observations were so detailed that modernscientists were able to look at the same part of the night sky and when theydid , they found a cloud of dust and gas, called a nebula. Based on thesefacts , modern scientists now believe that nebula is formed by theexplosion of the star. ROBERT GROSSETTESTEHe was a bishop in the Roman Catholic in the early 1200s A.DHe proposed the idea that the secrets of the natural world could be learedby discovering the laws that God had set in motion.He wanted to explain why things happened the way they did.HE WAS THE FATHER OF SCIENTIFIC METHOD , because he was the first tothoroughly use and explainTHE RENAISSANCE The GOLDEN AGE OF SCIENCE (1500 AD to 1600 A.D) NICOLAUS COPERNICUS Copernicus believed Ptolemy’s view of the universe was wrong Copernicus placed the sun at the center of everything and assumedthat the planets (including the Earth) traveled around the sun. Thisviews was called the heliocentric system or Copernican System in honorof Copernicus. The Heliocentric model is posted below. ANDREAS VESALIUS He published a Book on 1543, the book contains the detailed part of theHuman Body, The organs were clearly illustrated especially the musclesand bones. This book led to knowing how the medicine s taught. BLAIZE PASCAL He spent an enormous time in studying the air and liquids He demonstrated that the air we breathe exerts pressure on everything“ now we called it as ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE He demonstrated the PASCAL LAW The science behindthe law allowed us to develop hydraulic lifts, like the lift a mechanic usesto raise a car so he can get underneath i ERA OF NEWTON ( 1660 A.D to 1735 A.)Newton wrote most of his revolutionary work in three volume – The Principia The First Volume , laid down his three laws of motion,The Law of Inertia, Law of Acceleration and Law of Interaction (refer to the posted image below the Three Laws of Motion The Second Volume of the PrincipiaNewton built on the work of Pascual and added many details to theunderstanding of the motion of fluids The Third volumeLaid down his universal law of gravitation Newton used detailed experiments and observations to show thatgravity was the cause of both effects.The same gravity that attract objects to the earth (making them fall)alsokeeps the planets in their orbits around the sun,Newton also developed detailed mathematical equations and stillconsidered accurate to this day. The first law also called as Law of Inertia states that a object continues in its state of rest orof uniform motion unless compelled to cahnge the state by an external force. The second law of motion states that if a net force acts on an object , itwill cause acceleration of the object, the law addresses the cause andeffect relationship between force and motion. F=maThe Third Law of motion States that when two bodies attract , they apply forces to one another that are equal in magnitude and opposite in direction also known as The Law of action and reaction ROBERT BOYLE The founder of modern chemistry contemporary of Newton He did many experiments with gas , like Boyle’s Law Anton van Leeuwenhoek The Father of microscopy, invented the First microscope where he wasable to examine the different microorganisms THE ENLIGHTENMENT AND THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION ( 1735 A.D1820 A.D) THE age of Enlightenment Period , was a intellectual movement developedmainly in France, Britain and Germany which advocated freedom,democracy and reason as the primary values of society. Utmost importance of increasing efficiency of transportation,communication, and production Industrialization took place with greater risk in human heath food safetyand environment. The scientific community should critically analyze the works of the previousscientists since their studies were based on the data and results from theformer scientists. Increased scientific knowledge , led to the invention of many devices thatturned hours of manual labor into just a few minutes of work, The changedled to making of so many inventions and this mark the period in history . The BIRTH OF INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTIONS CAROLUS LINNAEUS His works on classification marked the beginning of theEnlightenment .because it revolutionized the study of living things. The basic classification scheme proposed by Linnaeus is still used todaythe scientific name consists of genus and species Carolus Linnaeus = Father of Modern Classification “The Binomial System TheScientific Name: genus and speciesMan scientific name : Homo sapiens Homo is the genus, sapiens wise ANTOINE LAVOISER The father of modern chemistry , he was the instrument of renamingoxygen , the gas which combine with fuel to form combustion He was the first to analyze chemical reactions in a systematic way, andhe was the first to realize that matter cannot be destroyed or created,can be transformed to another form. This is known as the Law of MassConservation . He was also the first to properly explain combustion which is theprocess burning,. Antoine Lavoisier Father of Modern ChemistryHe disproved the Phlogiston Theory , he renamed the dephlogisticated airoxygen, when he realized that oxygen was the part of air that the oxygen wasthe part of air that combines with substances as they burn the process iscombustion , Lavoisier work on this made him Father of Modern Chemistry THE REST OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY(1820 A.D to 1900 LOUIS PASTEUR He destroyed the idea of spontaneous generation He made great advances in the study of bacteria and the likr He demonstrated experimentally that fermented beverages resultedfrom the action of living yeast ( transforming glucose into ethanol He concluded that fermentation is vital process, he defined it asrespiration without air (Anaerobic respiration,) In his discovery of microbes were responsible for souring alcohol ,cameup the process of pasteurization where bacteria are destroyed byheating beverages and then allowing them to cool. His work in germtheory also led him and his team created vaccination on anthraxHis experiment on Pasteurization contributed to the improvement ofscience. He developed process of Pasteurization , the process of fermentation inmaking wine, vinegar etc Louis Pasteur  Father of Bacteriology GREGOR MENDEL He was a Augustinian monk. Father of Genetics He devotedly develop much of his life in the study of reproduction. The entire field of modern genetics which studies how leads are passedon from parents to offspring is based on his work. Gregor Mendel Father of Heredity MICHAEL FARADAYIt in this period in History in which science developed a much betterunderstanding of electricity and magnetism Faraday’s experiments and ideas about electricity earned him the title ofThe electrical giant JAMES CLERK MAXWELL He is known as the founder of modern Physics , he contributed on thedevelopment of the mathematical equations that showed Faraday wasright that electricity and magnetism are both different aspects of thesame phenomenon now called electromagnetism. JAMES JOULE He determined that like matter, energy cannot be created or destroyed.It can only change forms,. This now known as Law of Thermodynamics , the guiding principle in thestudy of energy, THE MODERN SCIENCE ( 1900 A.D. TO THE PRESENT) MAX PLANCK He proposed an idea that matter exists in tiny packets called atoms,energy exists in tiny packets which he called as quanta.You can give one packet of energy to an object, or you can give twopackets of energy to an object . However you cannot give an object anyamount of energy in between one and two packets. With his lot of evidence for his ideas, this led to the acceptance of thescientific community the QUANTUM MECHANICS ALBERT EINSTEIN Einstein used Plank’s idea of energy quanta to explain a problem calledthe photoelectric effect could not be explained by Newton’s laws ofmotion but could be easily explained by Planck ideas about the energyquanta. NEIL BOHR Bohr developed the Bohr Model . This model of the atom is based onsolid mathematics and it required the assumption that energy comes onsmall packets Using the Bohr model many of the mysteries of the atom were revealed OTHER SIGNIFICANT DISCOVERIES1907 : Radiometric dating discoveries that the earth is 2.2 billion years1915 : Einstein announced the general theory of relativity1915 ; Pellagra was discovered to be a dietary disease1924 : Hubble identified new galaxy1927 : Big Bang theory19281948  Alexander Fleming discovered Penicillin1932 : Chadwick discovered neutron1938 : Electroshock therapy was introduced1947 : Transistor was invented 19721985 : CT Scan and MRI were introduced1979 : cellular phones, radio, telephone system were introduced1982 : human growth hormone was genetically engineered1885 : Microsoft windows were introduced1988 : Digital cellular phones were introduced1992 ; smart pill1993 : Pentium processor1995 : Java computer language1998 : Viagra was inventedActivity: From your analytical point of view, what do you consider the three bestinventions/research/study, during the ages of ancient , middle and modern,that changed science and technology ? cite situations, rank them accordinglya. Ancient b. Middle agesc. Modern agesSource :Module 1 : A Brief History of ScienceScience Technology by Sherwin S Alar pages 13 18Science Technology and Society by 37Tita Cruz, Michelle Reyes pages 3739Read/Watchwww.studocu.com.phwww.slide shun net,mejiecruz.histwindantecedents.ofErythromycin – one of the mostimportant medicine invention.Abelardo Aguilar invented this antibiotic out of strain ofbacterium called Streptomyceserythreus from which the drugderived its name.Medical IncubatorWorld –renowned Filipino pediatricianand national scientist, Fe delMundo, is credited for theinvention of the incubator andjaundice relieving device. Herincubator was particularlyoutstanding as it addressed thestate of Philippine ruralcommunities that had noelectricity to aid the regulation of body temperatures ofnewbornbabies.Mole Remover Rolando DelaCruz is credited for theinvention of a local moleremover thatmade use of extract of cashewnuts. The indigenous formulaeasily caught on for itsaccessibility, affordability, andpainless and scar lessprocedure. Banana Ketchup Filipino foodtechnologist Maria Orosa, iscredited for the invention ofbanana ketchup, a varietyketchup different from thecommonly known tomatoketchup.Reference: Quinto, E. J. M., PhD, LPT and Nieva, A. D.MEng, ChE, RChE (2019)ScienceErythromycin – one of the mostimportant medicine invention.Abelardo Aguilar invented this antibiotic out of strain ofbacterium called Streptomyceserythreus from which the drugderived its name.Medical IncubatorWorld –renowned Filipino pediatricianand national scientist, Fe delMundo, is credited for theinvention of the incubator andjaundice relieving device. Herincubator was particularlyoutstanding as it addressed thestate of Philippine ruralcommunities that had noelectricity to aid the regulation of body temperatures ofnewbornbabies.Mole Remover Rolando DelaCruz is credited for theinvention of a local moleremover thatmade use of extract of cashewnuts. The indigenous formulaeasily caught on for itsaccessibility, affordability, andpainless and scar lessprocedure. Banana Ketchup Filipino foodtechnologist Maria Orosa, iscredited for the invention ofbanana ketchup, a varietyketchup different from thecommonly known tomatoketchup.Reference: Quinto, E. J. M., PhD, LPT and Nieva, A. D.MEng, ChE, RChE (2019)ScienceINVENTIONS BYFILIPINO SCIENTIST Most of the inventions appealedto the unique social and culturalcontext of the archipelagicnation. Throughout thePhilippine history, Filipinos areresponsible for developingmanyscientific and technologicalinnovations focused onnavigation, traditionalshipbuilding,textiles, food processing,indigenous arts and techniquesand even cultural inventions. Some of the following are themost important inventions bythe Filipino scientistINVENTIONS BYFILIPINO SCIENTISTMost of the inventions appealedto the unique social and culturalcontext of the archipelagicnation. Throughout thePhilippine history, Filipinos areresponsible for developingmanyscientific and technologicalinnovations focused on navigation, traditionalshipbuilding,textiles, food processing,indigenous arts and techniquesand even cultural inventions.Some of the following are themost important inventions bythe Filipino scientistINVENTIONS BYFILIPINO SCIENTISTMost of the inventions appealedto the unique social and culturalcontext of the archipelagicnation. Throughout thePhilippine history, Filipinos are responsible for developingmanyscientific and technologicalinnovations focused onnavigation, traditionalshipbuilding,textiles, food processing,indigenous arts and techniquesand even cultural inventions.Some of the following are themost important inventions bythe Filipino scientistINVENTIONS BYFILIPINO SCIENTIST Most of the inventions appealedto the unique social and culturalcontext of the archipelagicnation. Throughout thePhilippine history, Filipinos areresponsible for developingmanyscientific and technologicalinnovations focused onnavigation, traditionalshipbuilding,textiles, food processing,indigenous arts and techniquesand even cultural inventions. Some of the following are themost important inventions bythe Filipino scientistErythromycin – one of the mostimportant medicine invention.Abelardo Aguilar inventedthis antibiotic out of strain ofbacterium called Streptomyceserythreus from which the drugderived its name.Medical IncubatorWorld –renowned Filipino pediatricianand national scientist, Fe del Mundo, is credited for theinvention of the incubator andjaundice relieving device. Herincubator was particularlyoutstanding as it addressed thestate of Philippine ruralcommunities that had noelectricity to aid the regulationof body temperatures ofnewbornbabies.Mole Remover Rolando DelaCruz is credited for theinvention of a local moleremover that made use of extract of cashewnuts. The indigenous formulaeasily caught on for itsaccessibility, affordability, andpainless and scar lessprocedure.Banana Ketchup Filipino foodtechnologist Maria Orosa, iscredited for the invention ofbanana ketchup, a varietyketchup different from thecommonly known tomatoketchup.Reference: Quinto, E. J. M., PhD, LPT and Nieva, A. D. MEng, ChE, RChE (2019)ScienceErythromycin – one of the mostimportant medicine invention.Abelardo Aguilar inventedthis antibiotic out of strain ofbacterium called Streptomyceserythreus from which the drugderived its name.Medical IncubatorWorld –renowned Filipino pediatricianand national scientist, Fe delMundo, is credited for theinvention of the incubator andjaundice relieving device. Her incubator was particularlyoutstanding as it addressed thestate of Philippine ruralcommunities that had noelectricity to aid the regulationof body temperatures ofnewbornbabies.Mole Remover Rolando DelaCruz is credited for theinvention of a local moleremover thatmade use of extract of cashewnuts. The indigenous formulaeasily caught on for its accessibility, affordability, andpainless and scar lessprocedure.Banana Ketchup Filipino foodtechnologist Maria Orosa, iscredited for the invention ofbanana ketchup, a varietyketchup different from thecommonly known tomatoketchup.Reference: Quinto, E. J. M., PhD, LPT and Nieva, A. D.MEng, ChE, RChE (2019)Science Erythromycin – one of the mostimportant medicine invention.Abelardo Aguilar inventedthis antibiotic out of strain ofbacterium called Streptomyceserythreus from which the drugderived its name.Medical IncubatorWorld –renowned Filipino pediatricianand national scientist, Fe delMundo, is credited for theinvention of the incubator andjaundice relieving device. Her incubator was particularlyoutstanding as it addressed thestate of Philippine ruralcommunities that had noelectricity to aid the regulationof body temperatures ofnewbornbabies.Mole Remover Rolando DelaCruz is credited for theinvention of a local moleremover thatmade use of extract of cashewnuts. The indigenous formulaeasily caught on for its accessibility, affordability, andpainless and scar lessprocedure.Banana Ketchup Filipino foodtechnologist Maria Orosa, iscredited for the invention ofbanana ketchup, a varietyketchup different from thecommonly known tomatoketchup.Reference: Quinto, E. J. M., PhD, LPT and Nieva, A. D.MEng, ChE, RChE (2019)Science Erythromycin – one of the mostimportant medicine invention.Abelardo Aguilar inventedthis antibiotic out of strain ofbacterium called Streptomyceserythreus from which the drugderived its name.Medical IncubatorWorld –renowned Filipino pediatricianand national scientist, Fe delMundo, is credited for theinvention of the incubator andjaundice relieving device. Her incubator was particularlyoutstanding as it addressed thestate of Philippine ruralcommunities that had noelectricity to aid the regulationof body temperatures ofnewbornbabies.Mole Remover Rolando DelaCruz is credited for theinvention of a local moleremover thatmade use of extract of cashewnuts. The indigenous formulaeasily caught on for its OTHER SIGNIFICANT DISCOVERIES1907 : Radiometric dating discoveries that the earth is 2.2 billion years1915 : Einstein announced the general theory of relativity1915 ; Pellagra was discovered to be a dietary disease1924 : Hubble identified new galaxy1927 : Big Bang theory19281948  Alexander Fleming discovered Penicillin1932 : Chadwick discovered neutron1938 : Electroshock therapy was introduced1947 : Transistor was invented 19721985 : CT Scan and MRI were introduced1979 : cellular phones, radio, telephone system were introduced1982 : human growth hormone was genetically engineered1885 : Microsoft windows were introduced1988 : Digital cellular phones were introduced1992 ; smart pill1993 : Pentium processor1995 : Java computer language1998 : Viagra was invented Activity: From your analytical point of view, what do you consider the three bestinventions/research/study, during the ages of ancient , middle and modern,that changed science and technology ? cite situations, rank them accordinglya. Ancient b. Middle agesc. Modern agesSource :Module 1 : A Brief History of Sciencehttps//www.rainbowresource.com/pdfs/products/prod017414.smp10pdfScience Technology by Sherwin S Alar pages 13 18Science Technology and Society by 37Tita Cruz, Michelle Reyes pages 3739Read/Watchwww.studocu.com.phwww.slide shun net,mejiecruz.histwindantecedents.ofErythromycin – one of the mostimportant medicine invention.Abelardo Aguilar invented this antibiotic out of strain of bacterium called Streptomyceserythreus from which the drugderived its name.Medical IncubatorWorld –renowned Filipino pediatricianand national scientist, Fe delMundo, is credited for theinvention of the incubator andjaundice relieving device. Herincubator was particularlyoutstanding as it addressed thestate of Philippine ruralcommunities that had noelectricity to aid the regulation of body temperatures ofnewbornbabies.Mole Remover Rolando DelaCruz is credited for theinvention of a local moletht remover thatmade use of extract of cashewnuts. The indigenous formulaeasily caught on for itsaccessibility, affordability, andpainless and scar lessprocedure. Banana Ketchup Filipino foodtechnologist Maria Orosa, iscredited for the invention ofbanana ketchup, a varietyketchup different from thecommonly known tomatoketchup.Reference: Quinto, E. J. M., PhD, LPT and Nieva, A. D.MEng, ChE, RChE (2019)ScienceErythromycin – one of the most yyimportant medicine invention.Abelardo Aguilar invented this antibiotic out of strain ofbacterium called Streptomyceserythreus from which the drugderived its name.Medical IncubatorWorld –renowned Filipino pediatricianand national scientist, Fe delMundo, is credited for theinvention of the incubator andjaundice relieving device. Herincubator was particularlyoutstanding as it addressed thestate of Philippine ruralcommunities that had noelectricity to aid the regulation of body temperatures ofnewbornbabies.Mole Remover Rolando Dela Cruz is credited for theinvention of a local moleremover thatmade use of extract of cashewnuts. The indigenous formulaeasily caught on for itsaccessibility, affordability, andpainless and scar lessprocedure. Banana Ketchup Filipino foodtechnologist Maria Orosa, iscredited for the invention ofbanana ketchup, a varietyketchup different from thecommonly known tomatoketchup.Reference: Quinto, E. J. M., PhD, LPT and Nieva, A. D.MEng, ChE, RChE (2019) ScienceINVENTIONS BYFILIPINO SCIENTIST Most of the inventions appealedto the unique social and culturalcontext of the archipelagicnation. Throughout thePhilippine history, Filipinos areresponsible for developingmanyscientific and technologicalinnovations focused onnavigation, traditionalshipbuilding,textiles, food processing,indigenous arts and techniquesand even cultural inventions. Some of the following are themost important inventions by the Filipino scientistINVENTIONS BYFILIPINO SCIENTISTMost of the inventions appealedto the unique social and culturalcontext of the archipelagicnation. Throughout thePhilippine history, Filipinos areresponsible for developingmanyscientific and technologicalinnovations focused on navigation, traditionalshipbuilding,textiles, food processing,indigenous arts and techniquesand even cultural inventions.Some of the following are themost important inventions bythe Filipino scientistA HISTORY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN THE PHILIPPINESbyOlivia C. Caoili**IntroductionThe need to develop a country's science and technology has generally been recognized as one of theimperatives of socioeconomic progress in the contemporary world. This has become a widespreadconcern of governments especially since the post world war 11 years.1Among Third World countries, an important dimension of this concern is the problem of dependence inscience and technology as this is closely tied up with the integrity of their political sovereignty andeconomic selfreliance. There exists a continuing imbalance between scientific and technologicaldevelopment among contemporary states with 98 per cent of all research and development facilitieslocated in developed countries and almost wholly concerned with the latter's problems2 Dependence orautonomy in science and technology has been a salient issue in conferences sponsored by the UnitedNations.3It is within the above context that this paper attempts to examine the history of science and technologyin the Philippines. Rather than focusing simply on a straight chronology of events, it seeks to interpretand analyze the interdependent effects of geography, colonial trade, economic and educational policiesand sociocultural factors in shaping the evolution of present Philippine science and technology.As used in this paper, science is concerned with the systematic understanding and explanation of thelaws of nature. Scientific activity centers on research, the end result of which is the discovery orproduction of new knowledge.4 This new knowledge may or may not have any direct or immediateapplication.In comparison, technology has often been understood as the "systematic knowledge of the industrialarts."5 As this knowledge was implemented by means of techniques, technology has becomecommonly taken to mean both the knowledge and the means of its utilization, that is, "a body, ofknowledge about techniques."6 Modern technology also involves systematic research but its outcomeis more concrete than science, i.e. the production of "a thing, a chemical, a process, something to bebought and sold."7In the past, science, and technology developed separately, with the latter being largely a product of trialand error in response to a particular human need. In modern times, however, the progress of scienceand technology have become intimately linked together. Many scientific discoveries have been facilitatedby the development of new technology. New scientific knowledge, in turn, has often led to furtherrefinement of existing technology or the invention of entirely new ones.Precolonial Science and TechnologyThere is a very little reliable written information about Philippine society, culture, and technology beforethe arrival of the Spaniards in 1521.8 As such, one has to reconstruct a picture of this past using1 For a brief summary of the evolution of government concern for the development of science and technology, see Olivia C. Caoili,Dimensions of Science Policy and National Development: The Philippine Experience, Monograph Series No. 1 (College,Laguna: Center for Policy and Development Studies, University of the Philippines at Los Banos, October 1982), pp. 434.2 Guy B. Gresford and Bertrand H. Chate, l "Science and Technology in the United Nations," World Development, Vol. II No.1(January 1974), p. 44.3 See, for example, UNESCO, Science and Technology in Asian Development: Conference and Application of Science andTechnology to the Development of Asia, New Delhi, August 1968 (Paris: UNESCO, 1970); United NationsConference on Science and Technology for Development, Vienna, Austria, 1979, in Nature, Vol. 280 (16 August 1979), pp.525532.4 Jerome R. Ravetz, Scientific knowledge and Its Social Problems (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1971), chap. 1; James B. Conant,Science and Common Sense (New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 1974), chap. 2; Bernard Dixon, What is ScienceFor? (New York: Harper and Row, 1973), chap. 2: David Knight, The Nature of Science: The History of Science in WesternCulture Since 1600 (London: Andre Deutsch, 1976), chaps. 12.5 E. Layton, "Conditions of Technological Development" in Ina SpiegelRosing and Derek de Solla Price, eds., Science,Technology and Society, A CrossDisciplinary Perspective (London and Beverly Hills: Sage Publications, 1977), p. 199.6 C. Freeman, "Economics of Research and Development." in Rosing and Price, ibid., p. 235.7 Derek de Solla Price Science Since Babylon (Enlarged ed.; New Haven: Yale University Press, 1975), p.125.8 William Henry Scott in Prehispanic Source Materials for the Study of Philippine History (Rev. ed.; Quezon City: New DayPublishers, 1984), asserts that there are only two authentic medieval Chinese accounts about prehispanic Philippines. Hecontemporary archaeological findings, accounts by early traders and foreign travelers, and the narrativesabout conditions in the archipelago which were written by the first Spanish missionaries and colonialofficials.According to these sources, there were numerous, scattered, thriving, relatively selfsufficient andautonomous communities long before the Spaniards arrived. The early Filipinos had attained a generallysimple level of technological development, compared with those of the Chinese and Japanese, but thiswas sufficient for their needs at that period of time.Archaeological findings indicate that modern men (homo sapiens) from the Asian mainland first cameoverland and across narrow channels to live in Palawan and Batangas around 50,000 years ago. Forabout 40,000 years, they made simple tools or weapons of stone flakes but eventually developedtechniques for sawing, drilling and polishing hard stones. These Stone Age inhabitants subsequentlyformed settlements in the major Philippine islands such as Sulu, Mindanao (Zamboanga, and Davao),Negros, Samar, Luzon (Batangas, Laguna, Rizal, Bulacan and the Cagayan region). By about 3,000B.C., they were producing adzes ornaments of seashells and pottery of various designs. Themanufacture of pottery subsequently became well developed and flourished for about 2,000 years untilit came into competition with imported Chinese porcelain. Thus over time pottery making declined. Whathas survived of this ancient technology is the lowest level, i.e., the present manufacture of the ordinarycooking pot among several local communities. 9Gradually, the early Filipinos learned to make metal tools and implements  copper, gold, bronze and,later, iron. The iron age is considered to have lasted from the second or third century B.C. to the tenthcentury AD. Excavations of Philippine graves and work sites have yielded iron slags. These suggest thatFilipinos during this period engaged in the actual extraction of iron from ore, smelting, and refining. Butit appears that the iron industry, like the manufacture of pottery, did not survive the competition withimported cast iron from Sarawak and much later, from China.10By the first century A D., Filipinos were weaving cotton, smelting iron, making pottery and glassornaments and were also engaged in agriculture. Lowland rice was cultivated in diked fields, and in theinterior mountain regions as in the Cordillera, in terraced fields which utilized spring water.11Filipinos had also learned to build boats for the coastal trade. By the tenth century A.D., this had becomea highly developed technology. In fact, the early Spanish chroniclers took note of the refined plankbuiltwarship called caracoa. These boats were well suited for interisland trade raids. The Spaniards laterutilized Filipino expertise in boatbuilding and seamanship to fight the raiding Dutch, Portuguese,Muslims and the Chinese pirate Limahong as well as to build and man the galleons that sailed to Mexico.12By the tenth century A D., the inhabitants of Butuan were trading with Champa (Vietnam); those of Mai (Mindoro) with China. Chinese records with have now been translated contain a lot of references tothe Philippines. These indicate that regular trade relations between the two countries had been wellestablished during the tenth to the fifteenth centuries. Archaeological findings (in various parts of thearchipelago) of Chinese porcelains made during this period support this contention. From the Sung (9601278) and Yuan (12601368) Dynasties, there are descriptions of trade with the Philippines, and fromthe Sung and Ming (13601644) Dynasties there are notices of Filipino missions to Peking.13The most frequently cited Chinese account in Philippine history textbooks is that of Chao JuKua in 1225.points out questionable documents which have been the basis for information about this period and which were popularized inPhilippines History textbooks, including theories that have been mistaken for facts. Cf. Otley Beyer, "The Philippines beforeMagellan," and Robert B. Fox, "The Philippines in Prehistoric Times," in readings in Philippine Prehistory (Manila: FilipinianaBook Guild, 1979), Second Series, Vol. I, pp. 834; 3561.9 Scott, op. cit., pp. 2022.10 Ibid., pp. 181911 Ibid., pp. 136137; Fox. op.cit., pp. 4950.12 Antonio de Morga, Sucesos de las Islas Filipinas, first published in 1609, trans. and ed. by J.S. Cummins (Cambridge:Published for the Hakluyt Society at Cambridge University Press, 1971), pp. 252253; Francisco Colin, Labor Evangelica(1663) in Horacio de la Costa, S.J., Readings in Philippine History (Manila: Bookmark, 1965), p. 9; William Henry Scott,"BoatBuilding and Seamanship in Classic Philippine Society," in Cracks in the Parchment Curtain and Other Essays inPhilippine History (Quezon City: New Day Publis hers, 1982), pp. 6096.13 See Scott, Prehispanic Source Materials..., chap. 3; Berthold Laufer, "The Relations of the Chinese to the Philippines," inReadings in Philippine Prehistory, pp. 142177; Austin Craig, "A Thousand Years of Philippine History Before the Coming ofthe Spaniards," in ibid., pp. 128141.He described the communities and trading activities in the islands of Mai (Mindoro) and Sanhsu(literally three islands which presentday historians think refer to the group of Palawan and Calamianlslands).14 The people of Mai and Sanhsu traded beeswax, cotton, true pearls, tortoise shell, medicinalbetelnuts, yuta cloth (probably jute or ramie?) and coconut heart mats for Chinese porcelain, iron pots,lead fishnet sinkers, colored glass beads, iron needles, and tin. These were practically the samecommodities of trade between the islands and China which the first Spanish colonial officials recordedwhen they came to the Philippines more than two centuries later.15The Filipinos in Mindanao and Sulu traded with Borneo, Malacca, and parts of the Malay peninsula. Thistrade seems to have antedated those with the Chinese. By the time the Spaniards reached thearchipelago, these trade relations had been firmly established such that the alliance between the rulersof manila and Brunei had become strengthened by marriage. It was through these contacts thatHinduBuddhist MalaySanskrit and Arab Muslim Cultural and technological influences spread to thePhilippines. There have also been some references (by early travelers during the precolonial period) totrade relations between Japan and the Philippines. To date, however, Philippine historians have notfound any preHispanic references to the Philippines in Japanese literature of the period.16By the time the Spaniards came to colonise the Philippines in 1565, they found many scattered,autonomous village communities (called barangays) all over the archipelago. These were kinshipgroups or social units rather than political units. They were essentially subsistence economies producingmainly what they needed.These communities exhibited uneven technological development. Settlements along the coastal areaswhich had been exposed to foreign trade and cultural contacts such as Manila, Mindoro, Cebu, SouthernMindanao, and Sulu, seem to have attained a more sophisticated technology. In 15 70, for example, theSpaniards found the town of Mindoro "fortified by a stone wall over fourteen feet thick," and defendedby armed Moros  “bowmen, lancers, and some gunners, linstocks in hand." There were a "large numberof culverins" all along the hillside of the town. They found Manila similarly defended by a palisade alongits front with pieces of artillery at its gate. The house of Raja Soliman (which was burned down bySpaniards) reportedly contained valuable articles of trade  "money, copper, iron, porcelain, blankets,wax, cotton and wooden vats full of brandy." Next to his house was a storehouse which contained: muchiron and copper; as well as culverins and cannons which had melted. Some small and large cannon hadjust begun. There were the clay and wax molds, the largest of which was for a cannon seventeen feetlong, resembling a culverin...17These reports indicate that the Filipinos in Manila had learned to make and use modern artillery. TheSpanish colonizers noted that all over the islands, Filipinos were growing rice, vegetables, and cotton;raising swine, goats, and fowls; making wine, vinegar and salt; weaving cloth and producing beeswaxand honey. The Filipinos were also mining gold in such places as Panay, Mindoro, and Bicol. They worecolorful clothes, made their own gold jewelry and even filled their teeth with gold. Their houses weremade of wood or bamboo and nipa. They had their own system of writing18 and weights and measures.Some communities had become renowned for their plankbuilt boats. They had no calendar but countedthe years by moons and from one harvest to another.In the interior and mountain settlements, many Filipinos were still living as hunters. They gathered forestproducts to trade with the lowland and coastal settlements. But they also made "iron lancepoints,14 Chao JuKua was a Superintendent of maritime Trade in Ch'uanchow, Fukien province, when he wrote his Chu Fan Chih (AnAccount of the Various Barbarians) in 1225. Scott, in Prehispanic Source Materials... pp. 6670 has a translation of thisaccount. See also "Chao JuKua's description of the Philippines in the Thirteenth Century," in Readings in PhilippinePrehistory, pp. 194196; de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 911.15 See Antonio Pigafetta, First Voyage Around the World and Maximliianus Transylvanus, De Maluccis lnsulis (Manila: FilipinianaBook Guild, 1969), passim; excerpts of accounts by Garcia Escalante de Alvarado in 1548 and Rodrigo de Espinosa in 1564,in de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 1213; "Relation of the Voyage to Luzon," (1570) in The Colonization and Conquest of thePhilippines by Spain, Some contemporary Source Documents, 15591577 (Manila: Filipiniana Book Guild, 1965), pp. 160178.16 Antonio M. Regidor y Jurado and J. Warren T. Mason (in Commercial Progress in the Philippine Islands , published inLondon, 1905, and reprinted in Manila by the American Chamber of Commerce of the Philippine Islands, 1925, pp. 811),claim that the Japanese not only traded and lived in different parts of the Philippines before the Spaniards arrived, they alsotaught the Filipinos the art of working in metals, weaving, goldmining, furniture making, duckraising and fishbreeding forexpo rt. Scott (in Prehispanic Source Materials..., pp. 7879) doubts the authenticity of these reports as research on Japaneseliterature during this period has yielded no references to prehispanic Philippines.17 "Relation of the Voyage to Luzon," (1570), op. cit., pp. 163, 176177.18 Scott, Prehispanic Source Materials. pp. 5262. _ daggers and certain small tools used in transplanting.”19On the whole, the precolonial Filipinos were still highly superstitious. The Spaniards found no templesor places of worship. Although the Filipinos knew how to read and write in their own system, this wasmainly used for messages and letters. They seem not to have developed a written literary tradition atthat time.20 This would have led to a more systematic accumulation and dissemination of knowledge, acondition that is necessary for the development of science and technology. Because of the abundanceof natural resources, a benign environment, and generally sparse population, there seemed to havebeen little pressure for invention and innovation among the early Filipinos. As governor Francisco deSande observed in 1575, the Filipinos do not understand any kind of work, unless it be to do somethingactually necessary  such as to build their houses, which are made of stakes after their fashion; to fish,according to their method; to row, and perform the duties of sailors, and to cultivate the land... 21Developments in Science and TechnologyDuring the Spanish RegimeThe beginnings of modern science and technology in the Philippines can be traced to the Spanishregime. The Spaniards established schools, hospitals and started scientific research and these hadimportant consequences for the rise of the country's professions. But the direction and pace ofdevelopment of science and technology were greatly shaped by the role of the religious orders in theconquest and colonization of the archipelago and by economic and trade adopted by the colonialgovernment.The interaction of these forces and the resulting socioeconomic and political changes must, therefore,be analyzed in presenting a history of science and technology in the Philippines.Spanish conquest and the colonization of the archipelago was greatly facilitated by the adoption of anessentially religious strategy which had earlier been successfully used in Latin America. Known asreduccion, it required the consolidation of the farflung, scattered barangay communities into fewer,larger and more compact settlements within the hearing distance of the church bells. This was anecessary response to the initial shortage of Spanish missionaries in the Philippines. This policy wascarried out by a combination of religious conversion and military force.The net result of reduccion was the creation of towns and the foundation of the present system of localgovernment. The precolonial ruling class, the datus, and their hereditary successors, were adopted bythe Spanish colonial government into this new system to serve as the heads of the lowest level of localgovernment; i.e. as cabezas de barangay. The colonial authorities found the new setup expeditious forestablishing centralized political control over the archipelago  for the imposition and collection of thetribute tax, enforcement of compulsory labor services among the native Filipinos, and implementation ofthe compulsory sale of local products to the government.The Filipinos naturally resisted reduccion as it took them away from their rice fields, the streams and theforests which were their traditional sources of livelihood and also subjected them to the onerouseconomic exactions by the colonial government. Thus the first century of Spanish rule brought aboutserious socioeconomic dislocation and a decline in agricultural production and traditional crafts in manyplaces. In the region surrounding the walled city of Manila, Filipinos migrated from their barangays tothe city in order to serve in the convents and thus avoid the compulsory labor services in the shipyardsand forests.22 Over the centuries, this population movement would greatly contribute to the congestionof Manila and its suburbs.The religious orders likewise played a major role in the establishment of the colonial educational system19 "Relation of Conquest of the Island of Luzon," (1572) and "Relation of the Filipino Islands, by Francisco de Sande." (1575), inThe Colonization and Conquest of the Philippines by Spain. op. cit., pp. 190210; 29233; "Relation of the Philippine Islandsby Miguel de Loarca," (1575) and "Customs of the Tagalogs by Juan de Plascencia," in Readings in Philippine Prehistory, pp.197220; 221234.20 The Code of Kalantiao and Maragtas Code which have been taught by historians as precious prehispanic documents wererecently shown to have been fabricated much later. See Scott, Prehispanic Source Materials, Chaps. 45.21 "Relation of the Filipino Islands, by Francisco de Sande," (1575), op. cit., p. 313.22 On the consequences of reduccion, tributes and forced labor services, see John Leddy Phelan, The Hispanization of thePhilippines, Spanish Aims and Filipino Responses, 15651700 (Madison: The Univesity of Wisconsin, 1959), chaps. IV, VIIIX; Nicholas P. Cushner, S.J., Spain in the Philippines; from Conquest to Revolution (Quezon City: Ateneo de ManilaUniversity, Institute of Philippine Culture, 1971), chaps. 45; de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 3537. in the Philippines. They also influenced the development of technology and promotion of scientificresearch. hence, these roles must next be examined.Various decrees were issued in Spain calling for the establishment of a school system in the colony butthese were not effectively carried out.23 Primary instruction during the Spanish regime was generallytaken care of by the missionaries and parish priests in the villages and towns. Owing to the dearth ofqualified teachers, textbooks, and other instructional materials, primary instruction was mainly religiouseducation. Higher education was provided by schools set up by the different religious orders in the urbancenters, most of them in Manila. For example, the Jesuits founded in Cebu City the Colegio de SanIldefonso (1595) and in Manila, the Colegio de San Ignacio (1595), the Colegio de San Jose (1601) andthe Ateneo de Manila (1859). The Dominicans had the Colegio de San Juan de Letran (1640) in Manila.24Access to these schools was, however, limited to the elite of the colonial society  the Europeanbornand local Spaniards, the mestizos and a few native Filipinos. Courses leading to the B.A. degree,Bachiller en Artes, were given which by the nineteenth century included science subjects such asphysics, chemistry, natural history, and mathematics.25On the whole, however, higher education was pursued for the priesthood or for clerical positions in thecolonial administration. It was only during the latter part of the nineteenth century thattechnical/vocational schools were established by the Spaniards. 26Throughout the Spanish regime, the royal and Pontifical University of Santo Tomas remained as thehighest institution of learning.27 Run by the Dominicans, it was established as a college in 1611 by FrayMiguel de Benavides. it initially granted degrees in theology, philosophy, and humanities.28 During theeighteenth century, the faculty of jurisprudence and the canonical law was established. In 1871, theschools of medicine and pharmacy were opened. From 1871 to 1886, the University of Santo Tomasgranted the degree of Licenciado en Medicina to 62 graduates.29 For the doctorate degree in medicine,at least an additional year of study was required at the Universidad Central de Madrid in Spain.The study of pharmacy consisted of a preparatory course with subjects in natural history and generalchemistry and five years of studies in subjects such as pharmaceutical operations at the school ofpharmacy. At the end of this period of the degree of Bachiller en Farmacia was granted. The degree oflicentiate in pharmacy, which was equivalent to a master's degree, was granted after two years ofpractice in a pharmacy, one of which could be taken simultaneously with the academic courses after thesecond year course of study. In 1876, the university granted the bachelor's degree in pharmacy to itsfirst six graduates in the school of pharmacy. Among them was Leon Ma. Guerrero, who is usuallyreferred to as the "Father of Philippine Pharmacy" because of his extensive work on the medicinal plantsof the Philippines and their uses.30 The total number of graduates in pharmacy during the Spanish periodwas 164. 31There were no schools offering engineering at that time. The few who studied engineering had to go to23 Henry Frederick Fox, "Primary Education in the Philippines, 15651862," Philippine Studies, Vol. 13 (1965), pp. 207231,Encarnacion Alzona, A History of Education in the Philippines, 15651930 (1st ed.; Manila: University of the PhilippinesPress, 1932), pp. 2023, 4652; Eliodoro G. Robles, The Philippines in the Nineteenth Century (Quezon City: Malaya BooksInc., 1969), pp. 219229; J. Mallat, "Educational Institutions and Conditions," (1846), in Emma H. Blair and James AlexanderRobertson, The Philippine Islands 14931898 (Cleveland, Ohio: The Arthur H. Clark Co., 1906), Vol. XLV, pp. 263278.24 The Colegio de San Ildefonso grew to become the present University of San Carlos in Cebu City. It was taken over by theSociety of the Divine Word in 1933 and continues to be administered by this Order. The Colegio de San Ignacio prosperedand was elevated to the rank of a royal and pontifical university in 1621. It was closed when the Jesuits were expelled fromthe Philippines on 17 May 1768 by a royal decree of Charles 111. The Colegio de San Jose was seized by the Crown uponthe expulsion of the jesuits and later became the medical and pharmacy departments of the University of Santo Tomas. TheAteneo de manila is now a University run by the Jesuits. Alzona, op. cit., pp. 2429; Blair and Robertson, op. cit., Vol. XLV,pp. 101140.25 The B.A. then was more equivalent to the present high school diploma.26 The first school of arts and trades was founded in the province of Pampanga and a school of agriculture was opened in Manilain 1889. See Alzon, op. cit., pp. 4346; 156164.27 There was a Royal University of San Felipe established in Manila by a royal decree of 1707. It remained open until 1726 whenits work was taken over by the Jesuit University of San Ignacio which was closed in 1768. See ibid., p. 31.28 The following brief history of the University of Sto. Tomas is based on an account written by Fray E. Arias, reproduced in UnitedStates Bureau of the Census, Census of the Philippine Islands, 1903, Vol. Ill (Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office,1905), pp. 621631; Blair and Robertson, op. cit., Vol. XLV, pp. 141169.29 Arias, op. cit., p. 631.30 His works included Medicinal Plants of the Philippine Islands, published in 1903 and Medicinal Uses of Philippine Plants,published in 1921. See Miguel Ma. Valera, S.J. et al., Scientists in the Philippines (Bicutan, Taguig, Rizal: National ScienceDevelopment Board, 1974), pp. 95114.31 Milagros G. Nino, "Pharmaceutical Education in the Philippines," UNITAS, Vol. 43 (JUNE1970), p. 73.Europe. There was a Nautical School created on 1 January 1820 which offered a fouryear course ofstudy (for the profession of pilot of merchant marine) that included subjects as arithmetic, algebra,geometry, trigonometry, physics, hydrography, meteorology, navigation, and pilotage.32 A School ofCommercial Accounting and a School of French and English Languages were established in 1839.33In 1887, the Manila School of Agriculture was created by royal decree but it was able to open only inJuly 1889. The School was designed to provide theoretical and practical education of skilled farmersand overseers and to promote agricultural development in the Philippines by means of observation,experiment, and investigation. Agricultural stations were also established in Isabela, locos, Albay, Cebu,Iloilo, Leyte and parts of Mindanao. The professors in the School were agricultural engineers. The Schoolwas financed by the government but it appears that its direction was also left to the priests. Thecertificates of completion of the course were awarded by the University of Santo Tomas or the AteneoMunicipal. It seems that the School was not successful as Filipinos did not show much inclination forindustrial pursuits34In 1863, the colonial authorities issued a royal decree designed to reform the existing educational systemin the country. It provided for the establishment of a system of elementary, secondary and collegiateschools, teachertraining schools, and called for government supervision of these schools. The fullimplementation of this decree, however, was interrupted by the coming of the Americans in 1898.Higher education during the Spanish regime was generally viewed with suspicion and feared by thecolonial authorities as encouraging conspiracy and rebellion among the native Filipinos. For this reason,only the more daring and persevering students were able to undertake advantaged studies. The attitudeof the Spanish friars towards the study of the sciences and medicine was even more discouraging. Asone Rector of the University of Santo Tomas in the 1960s said: "Medicine and the natural sciences arematerialistic and impious studies."35 It was not surprising, therefore, that few Filipinos ventured to studythese disciplines. Those who did were poorly trained when compared with those who had gone toEuropean universities. Science courses at the University of Santo Tomas were taught by thelecture/recitation method. Laboratory equipment was limited and only displayed for visitors to see. Therewas little or no training in scientific research.36 Sir John Bowring, the British Governor of Hong Kong whomade an official visit to the Philippines in the 1850s wrote:Public instruction is in an unsatisfactory state in the Philippines  the provisions are little changedfrom those of the monkish ages.In the University of Santo Tomas... no attention is given to the natural sciences... nor have any of theeducational reforms which have penetrated most of the colleges of Europe and America found their wayto the Philippines.37In spite of the small number of Filipino graduates from the UST in medicine and the sciences they stillfaced the problem of unemployment. This was because the colonial government preferred to appointSpanish and other Europeantrained professionals to available positions in the archipelago. 38 Many of32 Blair and Robertson, op. cit., Vol. XLV, pp. 24124333 Census of the Philippine Islands, 1903, op. cit., pp. 613615.34 "School of Agriculture," in Blair and Robertson, op. cit., Vol. XLV, pp. 315318. The required course of study included subjectssuch as mathematics, physics, chemistry, natural history, agriculture, topography, linear and topography drawing, etc. as wellas practical work.35 Quoted in James A. Le Roy, Philippine Life in Town and Country (New York and London: G.P. Butnam's Sons, 1905) p. 206.36 This can be seen from a description of a physics class at the University of Santo Tomas by Jose Rizal in a chapter of hissecond novel, El Filibusterismo (The Subversive) written in Europe in 1891. At the start of the American regime, a Germanphysician of Manila submitted a report to the authorities on the conditions at UST’s medical college. The report mentions,among others, its lack of library facilities, the use of outdated textbooks (some published in 1845), that no female cadaver hadever been dissected and the anatomy course was a "farce", that most graduates "never had attended even one case ofconfinement or seen a case of laparotomy" and that bacteriology had been introduced only since the American occupationand "was still taught without microscopes!" See Le Roy, op. cit., pp. 205206.37 Sir John Bowring, A Visit to the Philippine Islands (London: Smith & Elder Co., 1858), p. 194. See also Robert MacMicking,Recollections of Manila and the Philippines during 1848, 1849, and 1850, ed. and annotated by Morton J. Netzorg (Manila:Filipiniana Book Guild, 1967, reprint of 1851 book published in London by Richard Bentley), pp. 3132.38 Alzona, op. cit., pp. 143144, cited a memorial sent to the Madrid exposition in 1887 by officials of the University of SantoTomas criticizing this government policy and urging its change "in order to prevent political disturbances which might becaused by the large number of dissatisfied professional men who could not find work." See also Census of the PhilippineIslands 1903, op. cit., pp. 632633. Apolinario Mabini wrote: "All the departments and provincial governments were staffedwith peninsular Spaniards personnel unfamiliar with the country and relieved every time there was a cabinet change (inMadrid). Very few Filipinos secured employment as army officers, as officials in the civil administration, or as judges andthese graduates later joined the revolutionary movement against Spain.With the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869 and the consequent ease in travel and communications thatit brought about, the liberal ideas and scientific knowledge of the West also reached the Philippines.The prosperity that resulted from increased commerce between the Philippines and the rest of the worldenabled Filipino students to go to Europe for professional advanced studies. These included Jose Rizalwho was able to pursue studies in Medicine and specialize in ophthalmology in Spain and Germany;Graciano Apacible who studied medicine in Madrid; Antonio Luna who obtained his Ph.D. in pharmacyin Madrid and later worked with renowned scientists in Ghent and Paris; 39 Jose Alejandrina who tookup engineering in Belgium, and others. It was this group of students which set up the PropagandaMovement in Europe that eventually led to the Philippine revolution against Spain.The religious orders provided most of the teaching force and institutions of learning in the colony. Thiswas similar to the situation that had earlier prevailed in Europe (where they had come from) during themedieval ages. Inevitably, members of the religious orders also took the lead in technological innovationand scientific research. This involvement invariably arose from their need to provide for basic necessitiesas they went around the archipelago to perform their missionary work of propagating the Catholic faithand to finance the colleges, hospitals, and orphanages that they had established.The Spaniards introduced the technology of town planning and building with stones, brick, and tiles. Inmany places, the religious (such as Bishop Salazar in Manila) personally led in these undertakings.40Because of the lack of skilled Filipinos in these occupations, the Spaniards had to import Chinese masterbuilders, artisans, and masons. The native Filipinos were drafted, through the institution of compulsorylabor services, to work on these projects. In this manner, the construction of the walls of Manila, itschurches, convents, hospitals, schools, and public buildings was completed by the seventeenthcentury.41Towards the end of the sixteenth century, the religious orders had established several charity hospitalsin the archipelago and in fact provided the bulk of this public service. These hospitals became the settingfor rudimentary scientific work during the Spanish regime long before the establishment of the Universityof Santo Tomas (UST) College of Medicine. Research in these institutions was confined to pharmacyand medicine and concentrated on the problems of infectious diseases, their causes, and possibleremedies.42 Several Spanish missionaries observed, cataloged and wrote about Philippine plants,particularly those with medicinal properties. The most notable of these was Father Fernando de Sta.Maria's Manual de Medicinas Caseras published in 1763 which was so in demand that it had undergoneseveral editions by 1885.43By the second half of the nineteenth century, studies of infectious diseases such as smallpox,44 cholera,bubonic plague, dysentery, leprosy, and malaria were intensified with the participation of graduates ofmedicine and pharmacy from UST.45 At this time, native Filipinos began to participate in scientificresearch. In 1887, the Laboratorio Municipal de Ciudad de Manila was created by decree. Its mainfunctions were to conduct biochemical analyses for public health and to undertake specimenexaminations for clinical and medicolegal cases. It had a publication called Cronica de Cienciasprosecuting attorneys.," See his The Philippine Revolution translated into English by Leon Ma. Guerrero (Manila: Departmentof Education. National Historical Commission, 1969), p. 27.39 Vivencio R. Jose, The Rise and Fall of Antonio Luna. Special Issue of Philippine Social Sciences and Humanities Review. Vol.XXXVI, Nos. 14 (MarchDecember 1971), pp. 43 48.40 de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 28, 3133.41 For a description of Manila during this period, see Giovanni Francesco GemIii Careri, A Voyage to the Philippines (originallypublished in London, 174446; reprinted in Manila: Filipiniana Book Guild, 1963), Chap. 2.42 Euologio B. Rodriguez, "Brief observations on Science in the Philippines in the Pre American Era," National Research Councilof the Philippines Islands (NRCP), Annual Report, 193435, bulletin No. 43 (Manila: February 1935), pp. 84128; J.P. Bantug,"The Beginnings of Medicine in the Philippines," NRCP, op. cit., Bulletin No. 4, pp. 227246; Vicente Ferriols, "Early Historyof Veterinary Science in the Philippine Islands," NRCP, ibid., pp. 334337; M.V. del Rosario, "Chemistry in the PreAmericanRegime," NRCP, op. cit., bulletin No. 5, pp. 359362.43 Eduardo Quisumbing, "Development of Science in the Philippines," Journal of East Asiatic Studies, Vol. VI, No. 2 (April1957), p. 132.44 As early as 1803, an edict was passed to control smallpox by introducing vaccination. In 1806, a Board of Vaccination wasset up to take charge of the propagation and preservation of the virus against smallpox. See Hilario Lara, "Development ofHygiene and Preventive Medicine (Public Health) in the Philippines," NRCP, op. cit., Bulletin No. 4, pp. 265266.45 Specimens were usually submitted to pharmacists for examination. Thus drugstores, notably the Botica Boie and Botica deSanta Cruz in Manila, served as research laboratories as well as manufacturers of drugs and household remedies. SeePatrocinio Valenzuela, "Pharmaceutical Research in the Philippines," in NRCP, op. cit., Bulletin No. 5, pp. 404406. Medicas de Filipinas showing scientific studies being done during that time.46There was very little development in Philippine agriculture and industry during the first two centuries ofSpanish rule. This was largely due to the dependence of the Spanish colonizers on the profits from theGalleon or ManilaAcapulco trade, which lasted from 1565 to 1813. It was actually based on the tradewith China which antedated Spanish rule.47 The galleons brought to Latin America Chinese goods  silkand other cloths, porcelain and the like  and brought back to Manila Mexican silver. When the Spanishand Portuguese thrones were united from 1581 to 1640, goods brought to Manila by ships from Japanand Portuguese ships from Siam, India, Malacca, Borneo, and Cambodia were also carried by thegalleons to Mexico.48 During this time, Manila prospered as the entrepot of the Orient.The Filipinos hardly benefited from the Galleon trade. Direct participation in the trade was limited toSpanish inhabitants of Manila who were given shares of lading space in the galleons. Many of themsimply speculated on these trading rights and lived off on their profits. It was the Chinese who profitedmost from the trade. They acted as the trade’s packers, middlemen, retailers and also provided servicesand other skills which the Spanish community in Intramuros needed. 49Spanish preoccupation with the Manila Galleon eventually led to the neglect of agriculture and miningand the decline of native handicrafts and industries in the Philippines. The deleterious effects of thetrade on the archipelago's domestic economy had been pointed out by some Spanish officials as earlyas 1592.50 But this seems to have been largely ignored by colonial policymakers. Only the localshipbuilding industry continued to prosper because of necessity  to build the galleons and other shipsrequired for internal commerce and the defense of the archipelago. This had become quite welldeveloped according to a French visitor in the nineteenth century. He observed:In many provinces shipbuilding is entirely in the hands of the natives. The excellence of their work isproof that they are perfectly capable of undertaking the study of abstruse sciences and that mathematicalequations are by no means beyond their comprehension... 51Agricultural development was left to the resident Chinese and the Spanish friars. The latter saw in thecultivation of their large estates around Manila a steady source of financial support for their churches,colleges, hospitals, and orphanages in Intramuros. The friar estates profited from the expandingdomestic food market as a result of the population growth of Manila and its suburbs.52 But the friar'scontribution in the development of existing agricultural technology was more of quantitative thanqualitative in nature.53 The profitability of their estates was largely derived from the intensive exploitationof native technology and their free compulsory personal services.Successive shipwrecks and piratical attacks on the galleons to Mexico led to declining profits from thetrade and triggered an economic depression in Manila during the latter part of the seventeenth century.54This situation was aggravated by increasing restrictions on the goods carried by the Manila Galleon asa consequence of opposition coming from Andalusian merchants and mercantilists in Spain.At the beginning of the eighteenth century, the Bourbon dynasty ascended to the Spanish throne andbrought with it political and economic ideas of the French Enlightenment. This paved the way for moregovernment attention to the economic development of the Philippines. Enterprising Spaniards began toexploit the mineral wealth of the islands, develop its agriculture, and establish industries. These effortswere further encouraged by the need to promote economic recovery after the British Occupation of46 Anacleto del Rosario, one of the first graduates of pharmacy at UST, was appointed as the first director of the Laboratorio. Hepioneered in bacteriological research, particularly in the search for causes of cholera, tuberculosis and leprosy andinvestigated the origin of beriberi which was one of the leading causes of death during that time. See Varela, et al., op. cit.,pp. 173189.47 Fedor Jager, Travels in the Philippines (Reprint of 1875 English ed., (Manila: Filipiniana Book Guild, 1965), chap. 2; William,Lytle Schurz, The Manila Galleon (New York: E.P. Dutton, 1959); Cushner, Spain in the Philippines, chap. 6.48 Morga, op. cit., pp. 287; 304309.49 Ibid., pp. 314316; de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 3941.50 de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 3940; Morga, op. cit., p. 310.51 Jean Baptiste Mallat de Bassilan, Les Philippines (Paris: Arthus Bertrand, 1846), in de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 154155.Mcmicking, op. cit., pp. 264266, has similar positive observations on shipbuilding during that time.52 See Nicholas P. Cushner, The Landed Estates in the Colonial Philippines (Monograph Series No. 20; New Haven Conn: YaleUniversity Southeast Asia Studies, 1976).53 Paul P. de la Gironiere, Twenty Years in the Philippine Islands (New York: Harper & Bros. Publishers, 1854), pp. 306307,has sketches showing the simple agricultural tools and implements still used during the midnineteenth century.54 de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 106107. Manila in 1762 1764.55Research in agriculture and industry was encouraged by the founding of the Real Sociedad Economicade los Amigos del Pais de Filipinas (Royal Economic Society of Friends of the Philippines) byGovernador Jose Basco y Vargas under the authority of a royal decree of 1780. Composed of privateindividuals and government officials, the Society functioned somewhat like the European learnedsocieties during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries and a modern National Research Council,56It undertook the promotion of the cultivation of indigo, cotton, cinnamon, and pepper and thedevelopment of the silk industry. During the nineteenth century, it was endowed with funds which itused to provide prizes for successful experiments and inventions for the improvement of agriculture andindustry: to finance the publication of scientific and technical literature, trips of scientists from Spain tothe Philippines, professorships; and to provide scholarships to Filipinos.57In 1789, Manila was opened to Asian shipping. This inaugurated an era of increasing Philippine exportsof rice, hemp, sugar, tobacco, indigo, and others and rising imports of manufactured goods.58 In 1814,Manila was officially opened to world trade and commerce; subsequently, other Philippine ports wereopened.Foreign capital was allowed to operate on an equal footing with Spanish merchants in 1829. By thismeans agricultural production particularly of sugar and hemp, was accelerated and modernized. Localindustries flourished in Manila and its suburbs  weaving, embroidery, hatmaking, carriage manufacture,ropemaking, cigar, and cigarettes making.59 Much of the finished products of these industries wereexported. Yet although Philippine exports kept rising during the nineteenth century, imports ofmanufactured goods also rose and foreign, particularly English capital dominated external trade andcommerce.60 This partly because of shortsighted Spanish colonial trade policies and the relativeinexperience and lack of capital of Spanish colonial trade policies and the relative inexperience and lackof capital of Spanish and Filipino merchants.The prosperity arising from expanded world trade and commerce in the nineteenth century led toManila's rapid development as a cosmopolitan center. Modern amenities  a waterworks system,steam tramways, electric lights, newspapers, a banking system  were introduced into the city by thelatter half of the nineteenth century.61 Undoubtedly, commercial needs led to the Spanish government'sestablishment of a Nautical School, vocational schools and a School of Agriculture during thenineteenth century. Various offices and commissions were also created by the Spanish government bythe Spanish government to undertake studies and regulations of mines, research on Philippine flora,agronomic research and teaching, geological research and chemical analysis of mineral watersthroughout the country.62 However, little is known about the accomplishments of these scientific bodies.Meteorological studies were promoted by Jesuits who founded the Manila Observatory in 1865. TheObservatory collected and made available typhoon and climatological observations. These observationsgrew in number and importance so that by 1879, it became possible for Fr. Federico Faura to issue thefirst public typhoon warning. The service was so highly appreciated by the business and scientific55 For accounts of those attempts to promote mining and industrial development, see ibid., pp. 107114; Cushner, Spain in thePhilippines, pp. 186194.56 The Society's early organization included sections of natural history, agriculture, and rural economy, factories and manufactures,industries and popular education. See Benito Legarda, Jr., "Foreign Trade, Economic Change and Entrepreneurship inthe Nineteenth Century Philippines" (Ph.D. dissertation submitted to the Department of Economics, Harvard University,Cambridge, Mass., 1955), pp. 117119, 321326; Patrocinio Valenzuela, "A Historical Review of Movements to Establish aResearch Council of the Philippines, in NRCP, op. cit., Bulletin No. 3, pp. 7779; Blair and Robertson, op. cit, Vol. LIi,pp. 289324; Cushner, Spain in the Philippines, pp. 194195.57 Blair and Robertson, op. cit., Vol. LI, pp. 3839.58 de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 138142; Cushner, Spain in the Philippines,pp. 195197.59 de la Costa, op. cit., pp. 143160; Cushner, Spain in the Philippines, op. cit., pp. 197209; Mcmicking, op. cit., chaps. XXVIXXVII; Bowring, op. cit. chap. I.60 Carlos Recur, Filipinas; Estudios Administrativos y Commerciales (Madrid: lmprenta de Ramon Moreno y Ricardo Rojas,1879), pp. 93122. Recur observed (p. 110) that from the commercial point of view, the Philippines was an AngloChinese colony flying the Spanish flag ("... bajo el punto de vista comercial Filipinas es una colonia anglochina conbandera espanola...").61 John Foreman, The Philippine Islands (London: Sampson Low, Marston, Searle and Rivington, Ld., 1890), chap. 9;Mcmicking, op. cit., chap. XXV.62 There were the lnspeccion General de Minas created by Royal Decree in 1837; Commission de Flora de Filipinas, 1876;Comision Agronomica de Filipinas, 1881; Comision Especial de Estudios Geologicos y Geograficos de Filipinas, 1885; andComision de Estudios de las Aguas Minero Medicinales, 1884. See Leoncio Lopez Rizal, "Scientific and TechnicalOrganizations in the Philippine Islands," in NRCP. op. cit., Bulletin No. 3, pp. 155159. communities that in April 1884, a royal decree made the Observatory an official institution run by theJesuits, and also established a network of meteorological stations under it.63 In 1901, the Observatorywas made a central station of the Philippine Weather Bureau which was set up by the American colonialauthorities. It remained under the Jesuit scientists and provided not only meteorological but alsoseismological and astronomical studies.The benefits of economic development during the nineteenth century were unevenly distributed in thearchipelago. While Manila prospered and rapidly modernized, much of the countryside remainedunderdeveloped and poor. The expansion of agricultural production for export exacerbated existingsocioeconomic inequality, that had been a cumulative consequence of the introduction of land as privateproperty at the beginning of Spanish rule. There was an increasing concentration of wealth among thelarge landowners  the Spaniards, especially the religious orders, the Spanish and Chinese mestizos,the native Principalia  and poverty and landlessness among the masses. This inequality, coupled withabuses and injustices committed by the Spanish friars and officials gave rise to Philippine nationalismand eventually the Revolution of 1896.At the end of the Spanish regime, the Philippines had evolved into a primary agricultural exportingeconomy. Progress in agriculture had been made possible by some government support for researchand education in this field. But it was largely the entry of foreign capital and technology which broughtabout the modernization of some sectors, notably sugar and hemp production. The lack of interest inand support for research and development of native industries like weaving, for example, eventually ledto their failure to survive the competition with foreign imports. Because of necessity and the socialprestige attached to university education, medicine and pharmacy remained the most developedsciencebased professions during the Spanish regime.Science and Technology During the First RepublicThere was very little development in science and technology during the shortlived Philippine Republic(18981900). The government took steps to establish a secular educational system by a decree of 19October 1898, it created the Universidad Literaria de Filipinas as a secular, statesupported institutionof higher learning. It offered courses in law, medicine, surgery, pharmacy and notary public. During itsshort life, the University was able to hold graduation exercises in Tarlac on 29 September 1899 whendegrees in medicine and law were awarded.64Developments in Science and TechnologyDuring the American RegimeScience and technology in the Philippines advanced rapidly during the American regime. This was madepossible by the simultaneous government encouragement and support for an extensive public educationsystem; the granting of scholarships for higher education in science and engineering; the organizationof science research agencies and establishment of sciencebased public services.The Americans introduced a system of secularized public school education as soon as the civilgovernment was set up in the islands. On 21 January 1901, the Philippine Commission, which acted asthe executive and legislative body for the Philippines until 1907, promulgated Act No. 74 creating aDepartment of Public Instruction in the Philippines. It provided for the establishment of schools thatwould give free primary education, with English as the medium of instruction. This was followed by thesetting up of a Philippine Normal School to train Filipino teachers. Secondary schools were opened aftera further enactment of the Philippine in Commission in 1902. The Philippine Medical School wasestablished in 1905 and was followed by other professional and technical schools. These were laterabsorbed into the University of the PhilippinesThe colonial authorities initially adopted a coordinated policy for the promotion of higher education in thesciences and government research institutions and agencies performing technical functions. TheUniversity of the Philippines was created on 18 June 1908 by Act of the Philippine Legislature. Among63 The meteorological studies done at the Observatory, notably by Jose Algue Sanllei, became world renowned. Some weresubjects of discussion at International Meteorological Congresses and were published in the Journal of the RoyalMeteorological Society in London. See John N. Schumacher, "One Hundred Years of Jesuit Scientists: The manila Observatory18651965," Philippine Studies, Vol. 13 (1965), pp. 258286; Valera, op. cit., pp. 122.64 Most of its faculty and students had actually come from the University of Santo Tomas. See Alzona, op. cit., pp. 177180; TeodoroA Agoncillo , Malolos; The Crisis of the Republic (Quezon City: University of the Philippines Press, 1960), pp. 250251.the first colleges to be opened were the College of Agriculture in Los Baños, Laguna in 1909, theColleges of Liberal Arts, Engineering and Veterinary Medicine in 1910 and the College of Law in 1911.By 1911, the University had an enrollment of 1,400 students, 65 Four Years later, its enrollment hadalmost doubled (to 2,398) and the University included two new units, a School of Pharmacy and aGraduate School of Tropical Medicine and Public Health.66 In 1916, the School of Forestry andConservatory of Music were established; and in 1918, the College of Education was opened.Except in the College of Medicine, where there were already a number of Filipino physicians who werequalified to become its faculty members when it was opened in 1907, most of the early instructors andprofessor in the sciences and engineering at the University of the Philippines were Americans and otherforeigners. Qualified Filipinos were sent abroad for advanced training and by this means foreign facultywere gradually replaced by Filipinos. For example, in 1920, Filipino Ph.D. graduates of U.S. universitiestook over the Department of Agriculture Chemistry in the College of Agriculture. By December 1926, theuniversity's enrollment in all colleges had reached 6,464 and out of a total teaching staff of 463, only 44were Americans and other foreigners.67Before 1910, the American colonial government encouraged young men and women to get a higherprofessional education as much as possible in American colleges. In 1903, the Philippine Commissionpassed an Act to finance the sending of 135 boys and girls of high school age in the United States to beeducated as teachers, engineers, physicians, and lawyers.68 Onethird of these were chosen by thegovernorgeneral on a nationwide basis and the rest of the provincial authorities. In exchange for thisprivilege, the pensionados, as they came to be called, were to serve in the public service for five yearsafter their return from their studies. Between 1903 and 1912, 209 men and women were educated underthis program in American schools.69 After the establishment of the University of the Philippines,scholarships for advanced studies of a scientific or technical nature in American Universities were givenonly in preparation for assignment to jobs in the public service.The Philippine Commission introduced science subjects and industrial and vocational education intothe Philippine school system but they found that industrial and vocation courses were very unpopularwith the Filipinos. When the Manila Trade School was opened in 1901, the school authorities found itdifficult to get students to enroll in these courses. Because of their almost 400 years of colonialexperience under the Spaniards, middleclass Filipinos had developed a general disdain for manualwork and a preference for the prestigious professions of the time, namely, the priesthood, law, andmedicine. Education in these professions came to be regarded as the means of making the best of thelimited opportunities in the Spanish colonial bureaucracy and thus of rising from one's social class.Hence, even at the newlyopened University of the Philippines, it was difficult to get students to enroll incourses which required field work such as, for example, agriculture, veterinary medicine, engineeringand other applied science. Scholarships were thus offered by the government to attract a sufficientnumber of students to enroll in courses that were needed to fill up the technical positions in thegovernment service.7065 Distributed among its various colleges and follows: College of Liberal Arts  215, College of Medicine and Surgery  56,College of Agriculture  186, College of Veterinary Science  14, College of Engineering  11, College of Law  154 andSchool of Fine Arts  801. See Census Office of the Philippine Islands, Census of the Philippine Islands, 1918) Vol. IV,Part II: Schools Universities, Commerce and Transportation, Banks and Insurance (Manila: Bureau of Printing, 1921}, p. 602.66 See ibid, p. 608.67 Findings of the Monroe Survey of Education in the Philippines cited in W. Cameron Forbes, The Philippine Islands Vol. I (Bostonand New York: Hougton Mifflin Co., 1929) p. 477.68 Forbes, op. cit., p. 45769 Charles Burke Elliott, The Philippines to the End of the Commission Government: A Study in Tropical Democracy (New York:Greenwood Press Publishers, 1968), p. 242. The author served as Secretary of Commerce and Police in the PhilippinesCommission from 19101912.The University began in 1911 with a faculty of only 36 scholars with the rank of assistant professor or higher, of which only five(14 per cent) were Filipinos, mostly from the College of Medicine. The remaining members of the faculty were Americans or inone or two cases other foreign professionals. In 1925, of 150 faculty members with the rank of assistant professor or higher,117 (78 per cent) were Filipinos and 33 (22 per cent) were American or other foreign scholars. See Harry L. Case and RobertA Bunnel, The University of the Philippines; External Assistance and Development (East Lansing, Michigan: Institute forInternational Studies in Education, Michigan State University, 1970), p. 10, Table 1.70 Elliott (in ibid., p. 238) observed the situation at that time was not very different from what was happening in the United Stateswhere students crowded the schools to get an education in the learned professions. A change in the Filipino attitude towardsmanual work was observed by Hugo Miller (in his Economic Conditions in the Philippines (rev. ed.; Boston: Ginn and Co.,1920), p. 304) during the second decade of American rule. As he wrote:When the common schools were first established in the Philippines under the American regime, family servants often carriedthe pupil’s books to school. Students generally expressed great distastes for any kind of industrial work. This was a reflectionof the ideas of their parents on the aims of education and the dignity of labor. Today, however, this dislike for industrialinstruction is not evident even with respect to such form of gardening and growing corn.In the field of medicine, the Philippine Commission provided for as many scholarships as there wereregularly organized provinces in the Islands. These were awarded by the school departments aftercompetitive examinations in the provinces.71 A recipient of these scholarships was required to return tothe province from whence he came and to serve as a physician for as many years as his medicaleducation was paid for by the government. This policy was adopted not only to assure the medical schoola continuing supply of carefully selected students but also to ensure a balanced geographical distributionof physicians in the different provinces and to counteract their tendency to settle in the large urban areas.Selected graduates of the schools of medicine and nursing were also sent on a government scholarshipto universities in the United States for postgraduate courses and training in special fields. In 1921, theRockefeller Foundation provided for six fellowships for qualified Filipinos in universities in the UnitedStates and Europe, two each in the fields of public health (preventive medicine), public health laboratorywork and teacher training in nursing education.72 Over several years, the Foundation provided morethan thirty of these fellowships and also financed shorter observation trips of many other health officials.It also greatly aided in the establishment and development of the Graduate School of Public Health andHygiene in the University of the Philippines. 73When the Bureau of Public Works was created in 1901, the Americans found that there were nocompetent Filipino engineers, and American engineers had to be imported. As a consequence, a specialeffort was made to attract Filipinos to pursue advanced studies leading to careers as engineers. In manycases, government financial assistance was provided to enable them to complete their professionalstudies in the United States. Upon achieving their professional qualifications, they were employed asjunior engineers in the Bureau of Public Works. Many of them rapidly advanced in their positions. Theircareer progress can be seen from the fact that whereas in 1913 there were only 18 Filipino engineersout of a total of 145 engineers in the Bureau of Public Works, the rest being American; by the end of1925, out of 190 engineers in the Bureau, only 16 were Americans and 174 were Filipinos.74The establishment of the University of the Philippines satisfied the shortrun needs for professionallytrained Filipinos in the colonial government's organization and programs. What the authorities did notrecognize was that by providing for an extensive public school system at the elementary and secondarylevels they had increased tremendously the social demand for professional education. The University ofthe Philippines remained the only publiclysupported institutions of higher education, and, since it couldnot meet the increasing social demand for universities was left to the initiative of enterprising Filipinos.For many Filipinos, private education became the alternative for professional education.Many of the existing private nonsectarian universities were organized during the early period of theAmerican regime to help meet the increasing demand for professional education and the country's needfor trained manpower. At the same time, these schools remained distinctively Filipino in orientation asthey were conceived by their founders as a means to conserve the national heritage and prevent thecomplete Americanization of the Filipinos.75At the outset of the American regime, there was no definite government policy on private schools.Because of the widespread disorganization that followed a more of these schools were set up,government regulation and control was found necessary. The first attempt to regulate private schoolswas through the Corporation Law (Act No.1459) enacted by the Philippine Commission in 1906. In effect,it treated the schools like commercial firms or business enterprises except that they would be underthe supervision of the Department of Public Instruction rather than the Department of Trade and Industry.In 1917, Act No. 2076 (Private School Act) was enacted by the Philippine Legislature. The Act71 Philippine Commission, Act No. 1632, 25 April 1907, in Forbes, op. cit., p. 354.72 Forbes, ibid., p. 361.73 Joseph Ralston Hayden, The Philippines: A Study in National Development (New York: The Macmillan Co., 1942), pp. 644645.74 Only one Filipino engineer, however, held the post of Director of Public Works during the first 25 years of American civilgovernment. He was Jose Paez and held the position of Director from 1919 to 1924. In 1924, he resigned to becomePresident of the Manila Railroad Company and was replaced by an American engineer. Paez had pursued advancedengineering studies in the United States and Europe at his own expense. See Forbes, op. cit., p. 408.75 Some of these schools were the Liceo de Manila, now Manila Central University, which was organized by the SociedadFilomatica in 1900, the Colegio Filipino established in 1900 and which became the National University in 1921, the lnstitutode Manila in 1913 which became the University of Manila in 1929, the Centro Escolar de Senoritas founded in 1910 whichbecame the Centro Escolar University in 1930 and the Philippine Women's college founded in 1919 which became aUniversity in 1932. Antonio Isidro and Maximo D. Ramos, Private Colleges and Universities in the Philippines) (QuezonCity: Almar's, 1973), pp. 1520.recognized private schools as educational institutions and not commercial ventures. It required theSecretary of Public Instruction to “maintain a general standard of efficiency in all private schools andcolleges so that... (they shall) furnish adequate instruction to the public..." and authorized him to "inspectand watch” these school and colleges. The supervision of these schools was entrusted to a staff of fourwithin the Department of Public Instruction  a superintendent, an assistant superintendent and twosupervisors.The number of private colleges increased rapidly. In 1925 a survey76 of the educational system of theIsland was authorized Survey which was headed by Paul Monroe made a comprehensive investigationof all public and private institutions of learning in the country. The Monroe Survey found most privateschools substandard. It reported that most of these were physically illequipped and with more parttimethan fulltime faculty members. Among the private colleges and universities, it found out that: "Theequipment of all these institutions is woefully inadequate, the laboratory for the teaching of science beingbut a caricature of the real thing"77As a consequence of the findings of the Monroe Survey, the Government took steps to improve themachinery for the supervision of private schools. The Philippine Legislature created the Office of PrivateEducation to look into such matters as physical plant, school facilities, libraries, laboratory equipmentand student load, and administrative work such as enforcement of relevant government regulations,evaluating credits taken by students, managing admission of foreign students and the like. As a resultof the increased outlay for supervision of private schools, their standard was improved.During the American regime, the development of science gained more government support along withefforts to establish an old extensive public school system and public health programs. The oldLaboratorio Municipal was absorbed by the Bureau of Government Laboratories created by thePhilippine Commission in 1901. In 1905, the latter was reorganized and renamed Bureau of Science. Itremained the principal government research establishment until the end of the second World War. It hada biological laboratory, a chemical laboratory, a serum laboratory for the production of vaccine virus,serums and prophylactics, a library. Most of the senior scientists in the Bureau were initially Americansbut as Filipinos acquired the necessary training, they gradually took over their positions.78The Bureau of Science served as a valuable training ground for Filipino scientists.79 It performed theneeded chemical and biological examinations for the Philippine General Hospital and Bureau of Healthand manufactured the serums and prophylactics needed by the latter. Pioneering research was done atthe Bureau of Science on such diseases as leprosy, tuberculosis, cholera, dengue fever, malaria, andberiberi. Results of these studies were readily available to the Bureau of Health for use in its variousprograms.80 Studies on the commercial value of tropical products, tests of Philippine minerals androadbuilding materials, the nutritional value of foods, and other were similarly done at the Bureau ofScience. From 1906, it published the Philippine Journal of Science which reported not only work donein local laboratories but also scientific developments abroad which had relevance to Philippineproblems.8176 Act No. 3162, 8 March 1924. See Forbes, op. cit., p. 435.77 Quoted in Isidro and Ramos, op. cit.m p. 21.78 Dean Worcester, a Zoologist from the University of Michigan who became a member of the Philippine Commission andSecretary of the Interior, was responsible for planning the organization of the Bureau of Government Laboratories. Heenvisioned the close collaboration and coordination of scientific efforts between the staff of the future College of Medicine ofthe University of the Philippines, Philippine General Hospita,l Bureau of Health and Bureau of Government Laboratories. Dr.Paul Freer, a physician with advanced training in chemistry, also from the University of Michigan, helped prepare the plan aswell as implemented it as the first Director of the Bureau of Government Laboratories. See Dean Worcester, ThePhilippines Past and Present., Vol. I (London: Mills and Boon 1914), pp. 488 499.79 Staff members of the Bureau held concurrent appointments as faculty members of the College of Medicine of the University ofthe Philippines and other units of the University, as well as appointments at the Philippine General Hospital. Officers of theBureau of Health were likewise appointed to the faculty of the College of Medicine. All of these scientists conducted theirresearch work at the Bureau of Science.80 A former Governor General W. Cameron Forbes (op. cit., p. 365) wrote that in the Bureau of Science "was created one of thefirst large public health laboratories under the American Flag. Since then laboratories doing similar work have been created innearly every state and city of the United States and extensively emulated abroad."81 In the first decade of the Philippine Journal of Science, less than ten per cent of published articles were authorized by Filipinos.Many of these surveyed the country's flora and fauna. See J.R. Velasco, "Manpower Needs in Scientific and TechnologicalComponent (Los Baños: Society for the Advancement of Research, Inc., April 1974), p. 10. For a more detailed description ofthe work of the Bureau of Science, see Jose R. Velasco and Luz Saens Arcega, National Institute of Science and Technology,19011982 (Manila: PHILAAS, 1984).The American colonial authorities organized other offices which, by the nature of their operations,contributed further to the growth of scientific research. These were the Weather Bureau (1901), theBoard (later Bureau) of Health (1898), Bureau of Mines (1900), Bureau of Forestry (1900), Bureau ofAgriculture (1901), Bureau of Coast and Geodetic Survey (1905), Bureau of Plant Industry (1929) andBureau of Animal Industry (1929)82 From 1927, there were proposals from professional societies for thecreation of a National Medical Research Council and a National Research Council similar to thosein the United States, Canada, and Australia.83 The Philippine Legislature passed an Act in 1933 creatingthe National Research Council of the Philippine Islands (NRCP)84 Aside from working for the promotionof scientific research, the NRCP actively participated in the deliberations and drafting of provisionsaffecting science and industry in the 1934 Constitutional Convention.Educational and science policy during the American regime was not coordinated with colonialeconomic policy. While Filipinos were provided opportunities for higher education in the sciences andengineering, the economy remained basically agricultural. To a great extent, Philippine economicdevelopment was determined by free trade relations established in 1909 between the Philippines andthe United States, and these continued long after independence was achieved in 1946.85 As a result ofthis policy, the Philippine economy became tied to that of the United States, remaining primarily anexporter of agricultural crops and raw materials and an importer of American manufactured goods.86Undoubtedly this delayed Philippine industrialization.87 The relative underdevelopment of the physicalsciences visavis the medical and agricultural sciences may be traced to this policy. Basic and appliedresearch in the medical, agricultural and related sciences received much greater government supportduring the American regime than did industrial research. 88Science and TechnologyDuring the Commonwealth PeriodIn 1935, the Philippine Commonwealth was inaugurated and ushered in a period of transition to politicalindependence. The Constitution acknowledged the importance of promoting scientific development forthe economic development of the country by incorporating a provision (Article XIII, Section 4) declaringthat "The State shall promote scientific research and invention, Arts and Letters shall be under itspatronage..."The government, which was by this time completely under Filipino management continued to expand itspublic school system to accommodate the increasing number of schoolchildren. The Governmentabolished Grade VII as the terminal grade in the elementary curriculum and also instituted the "doublesingle session" plan thus reducing the time allotment or dropping certain subjects in the elementaryschool.89 The government also enacted Commonwealth Act No. 180 (13 November 1936) reestablishing82 Rizal, op. cit., pp. 169176.83 The creation of a National Medical Research Council in the Philippine Islands was proposed by the Philippine Islands MedicalAssociation and the Colegio Medico Farmaceutico de Filipinas during separate meetings in 1927. The latter similarlysponsored in 1931 a meeting to discuss proposals for the establishment of a National Research Council of the PhilippineIslands. This was further discussed at the Second Philippine Science Convention sponsored by the Philippine ScientificSociety in February 1933. See Valenzuela, "A Historical Review of Movements to Establish a Research Council for thePhilippines,” op.cit., pp. 8083.84 Act No.4120, 8 December 1933. The NRCP was first organized in 1934 with 114 chartered members appointed by the GovernorGeneral. Its initial funding came from the Department of Agriculture and commerce.85 Under the Philippine Trade Relations Act passed by the United States Congress in 1946, free trade relations continued until1954, after which it was gradually dismantled by decreasing duty free quotas and increasing tariff duties, ending in 1974. SeeTeodoro A. Agoncillo, A Short History of the Philippines (A Mentor Book: New York: The New American Library, 1969), pp.253255; Garel A. Grunder and William E. Livezey, The Philippines and the United States (Norman: University of OklahomaPress, 1951), pp. 110121, 259264.86 For an extensive analysis of economic problems arising from this setup, see Shirley Jenkins, American Economic Policy Towardthe Philippines (Stanford, California: Stanford University Press, 1953).87 Whether intended or not, American consumer values and tastes were also disseminated in the Philippine public school systemthrough the use of American Textbooks and materials. With the spread of the mass media, these have become firmly rootedin the Philippines. This may be regarded as "cultural imperialism," and needs further research. See, for example, MartinCarnoy, Education as Cultural Imperialism (New York: David McKay Co., Inc., 1974), especially chapters 12. For a nationalistinterpretation of American educational policy in the Philippines, see Renato Constantino, The Filipinos in the Philippines andOther Essays (Manila: Malay Books, 12966), pp . 3980.88 This may be discerned from the progress reports of the various disciplines in the National Research Council of the PhilippineIslands, Annual Report, 193435 (Manila: February 1935). The NRCP's 114 chartered members included two physicists, onemathematician, two industrial chemists and seven engineers. The rest were in the medical, agricultural, biological and relatedsciences. See ibid., Bulletin No. 7.89 Commonwealth Act No. 589, 19 August 1940.the Office of Private Education which had been abolished in 1932.On the whole, higher education was provided mainly by the private sector. By 1936, there were 425private schools recognized by the government, 64 of which we institutions at the College level and 7were universities. These were Centro Escolar University, Far Eastern University, National University,Philippine Women's University, Silliman University, University of Manila and the University of SantoTomas. Together with the University of the Philippines, these had a total of 19,575 college students inall universities in the country.90 The combined significant increase in trained scientists and engineers inthe Philippines before the Second World War.The Commonwealth government worked towards the development of economic selfreliance whichwould be necessary to sustain genuine political independence. It created the National Economic Councilto prepare an economic program and advise the government on economic and financial questions.Several government corporations were reorganized and new ones were created to perform suchvaried functions as the exploitation and development of natural resources (e.g., the National PowerCorporation); the development and promotion of local industries (such as the National DevelopmentCompany (NOC) and its subsidiaries, the National Abaca and Other Fibers Corporation);promotion of agricultural production and marketing; and the like. The NOC was especially mandated toundertake the development of successful researches of government science agencies (such as theBureaus of Science, Animal Industry, and Plant Industry) for commercial production.The Commonwealth government likewise adopted measures to encourage and provide assistance toprivate Filipino businessmen in the establishment of industries and manufacturing enterprises. Forexample, it created new agencies, such as the Bureau of Mines, to provide assistance to businessmenundertaking mining exploration and development. It also increased appropriations for the Bureaus ofScience, Plant and Animal Industry, and thereby encouraged more scientific research for industrialpurposes.In spite of all these efforts, the Commonwealth government was unable to achieve its goal of economicselfreliance.91 This was primarily because foreign trade and tariff policies remained under the control ofthe American government. Free trade relations also continued and thus perpetuated the preferentialtreatment of exports of agricultural raw materials. Moreover, the Pacific War broke out in 1941 and thePhilippines was occupied by Japanese troops.The occupation of the Philippines by the Japanese during the War brought educational and scientificactivities practically to a halt as ablebodied citizens joined the resistance movement. Worse still, muchof the country was reduced to ruins during the battles fought for the liberation in 194445. Manila, whichwas the center of all educational and scientific activities, was razed to the ground, destroying everythingthat had been built up before. It was in this condition that the Philippines became an independent state.The government had to contend with economic reconstruction, normalization of operations as well asthe task of planning the direction of economic development.Science and Technology Since IndependenceThe underlying pattern of education and training of scientists, engineers, and physicians establishedduring the America regime, as well as the direction of government support for scientific research anddevelopment, has basically remained unchanged since independence in 1946. State support foreducation continues to be concentrated at the elementary school level; private colleges and universitiesprovide education for the majority of the collegiate population.The number of state universities and colleges has been increasing since 1946. However, their growthhas not been based on a rational plan. Partisan political considerations often determined the creation,location and staffing of these institutions. Hence, many of them were illequipped and illprepared toprovide quality higher education, particularly in the sciences and engineering. State universities andcolleges vary in standards arising largely from the uneven distribution of faculty development programs.The University of the Philippines System remains the most developed with extensive graduate andundergraduate degree programs in the sciences and engineering. It receives over half of the national90 Isidro and Ramos, op. cit., p. 23.91 See Manuel A. Caoili, “Quezon and His Business Friends: Notes on the Origins of Philippine National Capitalism," paperprepared for the Andres Soriano Professorial Chair in Business and Public Administration, U.P. College of Public Administration(15 January 1986, mimeo, 44 pp.).budget for state universities and colleges.92Private universities and colleges have similarly increased in numbers since 1946. However, these varyin standards. Most nonsectarian universities and colleges are organized and managed like businessenterprises and are heavily dependent on tuition fees. To operate profitably, they tend to concentrate onlowcost courses like business administration, liberal arts, and education, and encourage largeenrollments in these. Sectarian universities and college tend to be financially better endowed. Hence,they have been able to impose selective admissions, lower facultystudent ratios and provide laboratoryand library facilities required for science and engineering program. The large number of private collegesand universities to be supervised and the limited Department of Education and Culture (now the Ministryof Education, Culture, and Sports) staff to do it has hampered effective government supervision andcontrol of their standards.The number of college students and graduates from public and private universities and colleges hasshown tremendous increases since 1946. Nevertheless, the proportion of those in agriculture, medicaland natural sciences, and engineering has remained relatively low.93 There are very few graduates inthe physical sciences. Most students (and graduates) in agriculture come from state institutions whilemost of those in engineering and medical sciences come from private institutions. In both, the majorityof college students and graduates continue to be in teacher training/education and commerce/businessadministration courses. This situation results from the fact that students tend to enroll in courses wherethere are perceived employment opportunities and which their families can afford. Engineering andscience courses entail longer periods of study and have generally been more expensive to pursue.The rise of professional organizations of scientists and engineers followed closely the growth of highereducation in the Philippines. The earliest organizations were in medicine and pharmacy, professionswhich were the first to be introduced during the colonial era. As the number of graduates in a particulardiscipline increased, associations were formed to promote professional interests and regulate standardsof practice and these were modeled after their counterparts in the United States. Selfregulation byprofessional associations was eventually institutionalized in government laws which establishedprofessional examining boards and licensing procedures.In certain cases, professional organizations initiated changes in the collegiate curriculum for theirspecialization and worked for improvements in educational standards. The Philippine MedicalAssociation (PMA) actively worked to improve standards of medical education by limiting enrollment inmedical colleges and adding courses required for the medical degree. Academic members of theprofession have led in questioning the relevance of Western oriented medical curriculum to Philippineconditions. This has resulted in recent innovations in medical training such as more exposure of studentsto community medicine and the experimental curriculum to produce doctors for rural areas. In the fieldof engineering, the Philippine Institute of Chemical Engineers initiated a series of the conference todiscuss curriculum revisions for its profession. Results of these conferences were then endorsed by theDepartment of Education and Culture (DEC) for official adoption. In other branches of engineering, thegovernment through DEC convened meetings of educators, members of professional examining boards,representatives of professional organizations and the private sector to update and adopt uniform corecurricula for all universities and colleges to follow. These developments took place in 19731974.On the whole, there has been little innovation in the education and training of scientists and engineerssince independence in 1946. This is in part due to the conservative nature of selfregulation by theprofessional associations. Because of specialized training, vertical organization by disciplines and lackof liaison between professions, professional associations have been unable to perceive the dynamicrelationship between science, technology and society and the relevance of their training to Philippineconditions.Paralleling the increasing number of state colleges and universities has been a rise in governmentscience agencies since 1946. In 1947, the Bureau of Science was reorganized into an Institute of92 For more details on public and private universities and college offering science and engineering courses, see Olivia C. Caoili.Science Policy in the Philippines; The Education and Training of Scientists and Engineers (Ph.D. Thesis, Queen's Universityat Kingston, Canada, 1980), pp. 92144.93 For example, of 707,460 graduates in 19711972, 1.9 per cent were in agriculture, 7.0 per cent in medical sciences, 2.2 percent in natural sciences (i.e. biological and physical sciences) and 12.5 per cent in engineering. Source of data: unpublishedstatistics from the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports compiled by the Writer.Science.94 In the same year, an Institute of Nutrition, and in 1952, the Science Foundation of thePhilippines (SFP) were created and placed (along with the Institute of Science) under the Office of thePresident.95 The Institute of Nutrition was to perform research, advisory and extension functions whilethe Science Foundation was to stimulate research in the sciences and engineering and promote scienceconsciousness among the people. In 1952, the Commission on Volcanology was also created andplaced under the National Research Council of the Philippines (NRCP).96 Its function was primarily basicresearch on volcanology.Scientific work in government suffered from a lack of support, planning, and coordination during the earlypostwar years. The U.S. Economic Survey Mission to the Philippines in 1950, noted in its Report thedearth of basic information needed by industries of the country, the neglect of experimental work andthe meager appropriation in the national budget for scientific research, including the low salariesof government scientists.97 The Bell Mission recommended, among other things, the systematicexploration of the country's natural resources to determine their potentialities for economic development.Following the Bell Mission's Report, the Institute of Science was reorganized in 1951. Renamed Instituteof Science and Technology, it acquired the status of a governmentowned corporation and was placedunder the office of Economic Coordination.Added to its former functions of resources survey, testing and standardization were the responsibilityfor improving industrial processes and stimulating technological development.98In 1957, a report was submitted to the President pointing out the deterioration of Philippine science sincethe early years of the American regime.99The report analyzed the causes of this decline  the lack ofgovernment support; the dearth of scientists of high training and ability; low morale of scientists and alack of public awareness of Science. It made several recommendations towards a longrangedevelopment of science in the country. Consequently, Congress enacted the Science Act of 1958.100The Science Act created the National Science Development Board (NSDB) to formulate policies for thedevelopment of science and coordinate the work of science agencies. The Act also created thePhilippine Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC) and the National Institute of Science and Technology(NIST) and placed these, along with the NRCP, under the NSDB.In the 1960s additional science agencies were created by law which thereby expanded NSDB'sorganization and functions. These were the Philippine Inventors Commission (1964), PhilippineCoconut Research Institute (1964), Philippine Textile Research Institute (1967), and Forest ProductsResearch and Industries Development Commission (1969).101 Several existing agencies were alsoattached to NSDB for policy coordination  the NRCP, Metals Industry Research and DevelopmentCenter (MIRDC), the SFP, Philippine Science High School (PSHS) and Philippine Council for Agricultureand Resources Research (PCARR).102The creation of these science agencies undoubtedly shows increasing government concern and supportfor the development of Philippine science and technology. In 1974, a national science developmentprogram was also included in the government's FourYear Development Plan FY 197477.103In 1982, NSDB was further reorganized into a National Science and Technology Authority (NSTA)10494 Executive Order No. 94, 4 October 1947.95 Republic Act No. 770, 20 June 1952.96 Republic Act No. 766, 20 June 1952.97 U.S. Economic Survey Mission to the Philippines, Report to the President (Washington, D.C.: 9 October 1950) cited in A.V.H.hartendorp. History of Industry and Trade of the Philippines Vol. !(Manila: American Chamber of Commerce in thePhilippines, Inc.,1958), pp. 469470.98 Jose R. Velasco, "A Critique of Our Science Effort in the Last 15 Years," Fookien Times Yearbook (1973), p. 220.99 Frank Co Tui, The Status of Science in the Philippines (Manila: Phoenix Press, 1957).100 Republic Act No. 2067, 13 June 1958.101 Republic Act Nos. 3850 (14 April 1964), 4059 (18 June 1964), 1088 (18 June 1964), and 4724 (18 June 1966); NSDBResolution 246R3 (3 January 1967) and Republic Act No. 5526 (21 June 1969), respectively.102 The PSHS, MIRDC and PCARR were created by Republic Act Nos. 3661 (22 June 1963) and 4724 (18 June 1966) andPresidential Decree No. 48 (1O November 1972), respectively.103 Republic of the Philippines, National Economic and Development Authority,Four Year Development Plan FY 19741977(Manila: 1973), pp. 327328.104 See National Science and Technology Authority, Planning Services Staff, National R & D Expenditures and Manpower:composed of four research and Development Councils; Philippine Council for Agriculture and ResourcesResearch and Development; Philippine Council for Industry and Energy Research Development;Philippine Council for Health Research and Development and the NRCP. NSTA has also eight researchand development institutes and support agencies under it. These are actually the former organic andattached agencies of NSDB which have themselves been reorganized.105The expanding number of science agencies has given rise to a demand for high caliber scientists andengineers to undertake research and staff universities and colleges. Hence, measures have also beentaken towards the improvement of the country’s science and manpower. In March 1983, Executive OrderNo. 889 was issued by the President which provided for the establishment of a national network ofcenters of excellence in basic sciences. As a consequence, six new institutes were created: The NationalInstitutes of Physics, Geological Sciences, Natural Sciences Research, Chemistry, Biology andMathematical Sciences. Related to this efforts was the establishment of a Scientific Career System inthe Civil Service by Presidential Decree No. 901 on 19 July 1983. This is designed to attract morequalified scientists to work in government and encourage young people to pursue science degrees andcareers.Summary and ConclusionThis paper has shown that the development of science and technology in the Philippines has beengreatly influenced by its historical experience as a colony of Spain and the United States. Colonialpolicies, particularly those on economic development and external trade, have over the centuriesfostered a primarily agricultural, exportoriented economy dependent on the outside world as a marketfor its products and a source of manufactured goods. This has led to a neglect and lack of support forindustrialization.This problem of colonial development has affected the historical development of Philippine science andtechnology. The agricultural science generally tended to receive more funding and support compared tothe physical sciences. This pattern of support persisted despite the introduction of the other sciencesinto the country's educational system during the American regime.The continuing dependence of the Philippine economy on the United States even after independence in1946, as a result of the free trade relations and the virtual imposition of the "parity" amendment to thePhilippine Constitution by the US Congress, has perpetuated the predominantly agricultural and ruralcharacter of Philippine economy and society. This dependent development of Philippine society andeconomy has had serious repercussions for the advancement of Philippine science and technology.Increasing social demand for higher education has led to the growth of highlytrained professionalmanpower, particularly scientists, engineers, and physicians. However, because of the underdevelopedstate of the economy, many of these sciencebased professionals have either been unemployed orunderemployed. Consequently, many of them have been forced to migrate to developed countries, thuscreating a "brain drain" or loss of valuable human resources for the Philippines.106 Worse still, this"brain drain" helps to perpetuate Philippine dependent development as many of those who leave arehighly educated and bettertrained professionals who are needed in the country's development efforts.There is thus a need for the government to critically reexamine the interrelations between past andpresent education and science policies with those of its economic development policies in order to beable to redirect these towards the goal of attaining a strong, selfreliant economy and society. A welldeveloped national science and technology is a critical factor in the achievement of this goal.*Paper prepared for the of the Philippines Science Research Foundation in connection with its projecton "Analysis of Conditions for National Scientific and Technological SelfReliance: The PhilippineSituation," June 1986.INTELLECTUAL REVOLUTIONS THAT DEFINED SOCIETYLesson 2: Intellectual Revolutions That Defined SocietyScientific RevolutionHow can science be defined?1. Science as an idea. It includes ideas, theories, and all available systematic explanations andobservations about the natural and physical world.2. Science as an intellectual activity. It encompasses a systematic and practical study of thenatural and physical world. This process of study involves systematic observation andexperimentation.3. Science as a body of knowledge. It is a subject or a discipline, a field of study, or a body ofknowledge that deals with the process of learning about the natural and physical world.4. Science as a personal and social activity. This explains that science is both knowledge andactivities done by human beings to develop better understanding of the world around them. Itis a means to improve life and to survive in life. It is interwoven with people’s lives.The idea of science revolution claimed to have started in the early 16 century up to the 18th thcentury in Europe.Scientific Revolution was the period of enlightenment when the developments in the fields ofmathematics, physics, astronomy, biology and chemistry transformed the views of society aboutnature. It explained the mergence or birth of modern science as a result of these developments fromthe disciplines mentioned.Influences to Scientific RevolutionScientific IdeasHumans SocietyScience, Technology and Society Scientific RevolutionsScientific revolution is very significant in the development of human beings, transformation of thesociety, and in the formulation of scientific ideas.Some Intellectuals and their Revolutionary IdeasIntellectual Revolution is the time period when advancements of Science & Technology changedpeople’s perceptions and beliefs.Scientists in all periods of time are driven by their curiosity, critical thinking and creativity to explorethe physical and natural world. Their love for science is driven by their deep passion to know and todiscover.The development during the Intellectual Revolution showed how society was transformed by S & T.Intellectual Revolutions:1. Freudian Revolution (Sigmund Freud)2. Copernican Revolution (Nicolaus Copernicus)3. Darwinian Revolution (Charles Darwin)Freudian Revolution (Sigmund Freud)This theory has started to revolutionize Psychiatry with Sigmund Freud. This includes the "FreudianTheory of Personality" that involves the human development contributes to his/her personality andalso his "psychoanalysis" that is the process for achieving proper functioning if a human does notcomplete his/her developmental stage.The is a scientific way to .method of psychoanalysis study the human mind and neurotic illnessHis method was unorthodox – focusing on human sexuality and evil nature of man.Copernican Revolution (Nicolaus Copernicus)This caused the paradigm shift of how the earth and sun were placed in the heavens/universe. It isthe idea that rejected ( ) and proved thePtolemaic model earth is the center of the solar systemheliocentric model (Sun is the center of the solar system having the earth revolving around it.) Thisidea and model of the universe was essentially completed in .1510Science, Technology and Society Darwinian Revolution (Charles Darwin)Charles Darwin is famous for his . He changed our concept of the world’stheory of evolutioncreation and evolution.This has brought a great impact on how people approach Biology forever. This revolution provided adifferent than the "theory of Creation". The Darwinian revolution started when Charles Darwinpublished his book " that emphasizes that humans are the result ofThe Origin of Species" in 1589an evolution.His book presented evidence on how species evolved over time and presented traits and adaptationthat differentiate species.Cradles of Early Scienceesoamerica includes theentire area of CentralAmerica from SouthernMexico up to theborder of South America.There is no doubt that theMesoamerican region is richin culture andScience, Technology and Society knowledge prior to thearrival of its Europeancolonizers.Mayan Civilization is one ofthe famous civilizations thatlasted for approximately2,000 years.Contributions1. These people are knownfor their works in Astronomy.They incorporated theiradvanceunderstanding of astronomyinto their temples and otherScience, Technology and Society religious structures. Thisallows them touse their temples forastronomical observation.For example, the pyramidin Chichen Itza inMexico is situated at thelocation of the Sun duringthe fall and springequinoxes.2. Mayan knowledge andunderstanding aboutcelestial bodies wasadvanced for their timeScience, Technology and Societyas evidenced by theirknowledge of predictingeclipse and usingastrological cycles inplanting andharvesting.3. The Mayans are alsoknown for measuring timeusing two complicatedcalendar systems.These calendars were veryuseful for their lifeespecially in planning theiractivities and inScience, Technology and Society observing their religiousrituals and culturalcelebrations.4. The Mayans alsodeveloped the technolog Mesoamerica Asia Middle East AfricaDevelopment of Science in MesoamericaMesoamerica includes the entire area of Central America from Southern Mexico up to theborder of South America. There is no doubt that the Mesoamerican region is rich in culture andknowledge prior to the arrival of its European colonizers.Mayan Civilization is one of the famous civilizations that lasted for approximately 2, 000 years. These people are known for their works in astronomy. They incorporated their advanceunderstanding of astronomy into their temples and other religious structures. This allows themto use their temples for astronomical observation. For example, the pyramid in Chichen Itza inMexico is it waited at the location of the sun during the fall and spring equinoxes. Mayan knowledge and understanding about celestial bodies was advance for their time  asevidenced by their knowledge of predicting eclipses and using astrological cycles in plantingand harvesting. The Mayans are also known for measuring time using two complicated calendar systems.These calendars were very useful for their life especially in planning their activities and inobserving their religious rituals and cultural celebrations.Science, Technology and Society The Mayans alsodeveloped thetechnology for growingdifferent crops andbuilding elaborate cities usingordinary machineries andtools. They builthydraulics system with sophisticated waterwaysto supply water todifferent communities The Mayans alsodeveloped thetechnology for growingScience, Technology and Society different crops andbuilding elaborate cities usingordinary machineries andtools. They builthydraulics system with sophisticated waterwaysto supply water todifferent communities The Mayans also developed the technology for growing different crops and building elaboratecities using ordinary machineries and tools. They built hydraulics system with sophisticatedwaterways to supply water to different communities. They used various tools and adapt themselves to innovations especially in the field of arts.Mayans built looms for weaving cloth and devised a rainbow of glitter paint made from mineralcalled mica. They're also believed to be one of the first people to produce rubber products 3,000 yearsbefore Goodyear received it patent in 1844. One of most scientifically advanced societies in Mesoamerica. They are also famous as one ofthe world's first civilizations to use a writing system known as the Mayan hieroglyphics. They were also skilled in mathematics and created a number system based on the numeral 20. They also independently developed the concept of zero and positional value , even before theRomans did.Inca Civilization is also famous in Mesoamerica. The Incas made advanced scientific ideasconsidering their limitations as an old civilization. The following were scientific ideas and tools thatthey developed to help them in everyday life.Science, Technology and Society Contributions roads paved with stones stone buildings that surmounted earthquakes and other disasters irrigation system and technique for storing water for their crops to grow in all types of land calendar with 12 months to mark their religious festivals and prepare them for plantingseason the first suspension bridge Quipo, a system of knotted ropes to keep records that only experts can interpret Inca textiles since cloth was one of the specially prized artistic achievements riseAztec civilization has also made substantial contributions to science and technology and to thesociety as a whole.Contributions1. . The Aztec put value on education; that is why their children areMandatory Educationmandated to get education regardless of their social class, gender, or age. It is an early form ofuniversal or inclusive education.2. Chocolates. The Aztec in Mexico developed chocolate during their time. In the Mayan culture,they use it as currency. The Aztec valued the cacao beans highly and made it as part of their tribute totheir gods.3. . They used a type of antispasmodic medication that could preventAntispasmodic medicationmuscle spasms and relax muscles, which could help during surgery.4. Chinampa. It is a form as Aztec technology for agricultural farming in which the land was dividedinto rectangular areas and surrounded by canal.5. . This enabled them to plan their activities, rituals, and planting season.Aztec calendar6. . A light narrow boat used for traveling in water system.Invention of the canoeDevelopment of Science in AsiaAsia is the biggest continent in the world and the home of many ancient civilizations. It is a host tomany cultural, economic, scientific, and political activities of all ages. In the field of science,technology, and mathematics, great civilizations have stood out in India, China, and the Middle Eastcivilizations. These civilizations were incomparable in terms of their contributions to the developmentof knowledge during their time.India is a huge peninsula surrounded by vast bodies of water and fortified by huge mountains in itsnorthern borders. The Indians creatively developed various ideas and technologies useful in theireveryday lives.Science, Technology and Society Contributions1. They are known for manufacturing iron and in metallurgical works. Their iron steel is considered tobe the best and held with high regard in the whole of Roman Empire.2. India is famous in medicine. Ayurveda , a system of traditional medicine that originated in ancientIndia before 2500 BC, is still practiced as a form of alternative medicine.3. Ancient India is also notable in the field of astronomy. They developed theories and theconfiguration of the universe, the spherical self supporting Earth and the year of 360 days with 12equal parts of 30 days each.4. Ancient India is also known for their mathematics. The earliest traces of mathematical knowledge inthe Indian subcontinent appeared in the Indus Valley Civilization. The people of this civilization, triedto standardized measurement of length to a high degree of accuracy and designed a ruler, theMohenjoDaro ruler.5. Indian astronomer and mathematician Aryabhata, in his Aryabhatiya introduced a number oftrigonometric functions, tables and techniques as well as algorithms of algebra.China is one of the ancient civilizations with substantial contributions in many areas of life likemedicine, astronomy, science, mathematics, arts, philosophy, and music, among others. Chinesecivilizations have greatly influenced many of its neighboring countries like Korea, Japan, Philippines,Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, Myanmar, and other countries that belong to the old Silk Road.Contributions1. Chinese are known for traditional medicines, a product of centuries of experiences and discoveryof the Chinese people. They discovered various medical properties and uses of different plants andanimals to cure human illness. An example is the practice of acupuncture.2. In terms of technology, Chinese are known to develop many tools. Among the famous discoveriesand inventions of the Chinese civilization were compass, paper making, gunpowder, and printing toolsthat became known in the West only by the end of the Middle Ages. They also invented other toolslike iron plough, wheelbarrow and propeller, among others. They also developed a design of differentmodels of bridges, invented the first seismological detector, and developed a dry dock facility.3. Chinese also made significant records and supernovas, lunar and solar eclipses, and comets,which were carefully recorded and preserved to better understand the heavenly bodies and theireffects on our world.4. Chinese are also known in seismology. This made them more prepared in times of naturalcalamities.Science, Technology and Society Middle East Countries are dominantly occupied by Muslims. With the spread of Islam in the 7 andth8th centuries, a period of Muslim scholarship or what is called the Golden Age of Islam lasted until the13th century. The common language of Arabic, access to Greek texts from the Byzantine Empire, andtheir proximity to India were contributory to intellectualization of the Muslims and provided theirscholars knowledge to create innovations and develop new ideas. But contrary to the Greeks, Muslimscientists placed greater value on science experiments rather than plainthought experiments. Thisled to the development of the scientific method in the Muslim world and made significantimprovements by using experiments to distinguish between competing scientific theories set within agenerally empirical orientation.Contributions1. Ibn alHaytham is regarded as the Father of Optics, especially for his empirical proof of theintromission theory of light.2. Muhammad ibn Musa alKhwarizmi gave his name to concept the algorithm while the termalgebra aljabris derived from ¸the beginning of the title of one of his publications. What is nowknown as the Arabic Numeral System originally came from India but Muslim mathematiciansdid make several refinements to the number system, such as the introduction of decimalpoint notation.3. Jabir ibn Hayyan – considered to be the Father of Chemistry.4. Ibn Sina – pioneered the science of experimental medicine and was the first physician toconduct Book of Healing and the Canonclinical trials. His most notable works in medicine, theof Medicine, were used as standard medicinal texts in both the Muslim world and in Europeduring the 17 century. Among his many contributions are theth discovery of the contagiousnature of infectious disease and the introduction of clinical pharmacology.Development of Science in AfricaAfrica is blessed with natural and mineral resources. Science also emerged in this part of the planetlong before the Europeans colonized it. The history of science and mathematics show that similar toother ancient civilizations, the early civilizations in Africa are knowledge procedures too.Contributions1. The Ancient Egyptian civilization has contributed immensely and made significant advances inthe fields of astronomy, mathematics, and medicine. For example, the development ofgeometry was a product of necessity to preserve the layout and ownership of farmlands of theEgyptians living along the Nile River.2. Egypt was known to be the center of alchemy, which is known as the medieval forerunner ofchemistry. They tried to study human anatomy and pharmacology, and applied importantcomponents such as examination, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis for the treatment of theScience, Technology and Societydiseases. These components displayed strong parallels to the basic empirical method ofstudying science.3. Astronomy was also famous in African region. for instance, documents show that Africans usedthree types of calendars: lunar, solar and stellar or combination of the three.4. Metallurgy was also known in the African regions during the ancient times. They inventedmetal tools used in their homes, in agriculture, and in building their magnificent architectures.5. Mathematics was also known to be prominent in the life of early people in the Africancontinent. from the mountains between Swaziland and South Africa, whichThe Lebomo Bonemay have been a tool for multiplication, division, and simple mathematical calculation ora sixmonth lunar calendar, is considered to be the oldest known mathematical artifactdated from 35, 000 BCE.INTELLECTUAL REVOLUTIONS THAT DEFINED SOCIETYThe Intellectual revolution pertains to the period of paradigm shifts or changes in thescientific beliefs that have been widely embraced and accepted by the people (Hintay, 2018).THE THREE REVOLUTIONS THAT DEFINED THE SOCIETY1.) Ideas of known intellectuals2.) Information Revolution3.) Cradles of Early ScienceIDEAS OF KNOWN INTELLECTUALSCOPERNICAN REVOLUTIONIn the 6 century, Ptolemy introduced the geocentric model where it showed that the thEarth is the center of the universe which was thought to be true by most of the people atthat time.NICHOLAS COPERNICUS (14731543)Copernicus is an Astronomer who contradicts the geocentric model and proposed theHeliocentric Theory where planets revolve around the sun.The change from the belief of geocentric to heliocentric happened through thecontributions of other important persons such as: Brahe’s observation of the star Cassiopeia Kepler stated that the planets move in elliptical orbits and the sun at the center Galileo Galilei developed telescope and observed Venus Isaac Newton’s law of gravitationThe Copernican revolution influences conceptual changes in cosmology, religion,physics, and philosophy.DARWINIAN REVOLUTIONUNITED KINGDOMCHARLES DARWIN (18091882)Formulated his book “On the Origin of Species” in 1859 that presented evidence onhow species evolved over time and “The Descent of Man (1871)” that introduced the idea ofall organic life under the realm of revolutionary thinking.Darwin proposed the theory of evolution by natural selection where organisms changeovertime as a result of changes in heritable physical or behavioral traits. The changes thatallow an organism to better adapt to its environment can help it survive and have moreoffspringThere are 2 main points in his theory:1. All life on Earth is connected and related to each other2. This diversity of life came about because of the modifications in populations that weredriven by natural selectionNatural Selection survival of the fittestFREUDIAN REVOLUTIONSIGMUND FREUD (18561939)Freud founded psychoanalysis. He described that the brain can be segmented intocompartments. He developed an observational method to study human's inner life mainlyfocuses on human sexuality and evil nature of man.The Freudian revolution greatly affected or gave rise to the Literature, Visual Arts andMusic.INFORMATION REVOLUTIONThe Information Revolution started from the Sumerian pictographs, which is theearliest writing system. Then comes the invention of Gutenberg’s printing press 1455. Thereemerged the use of typewriter and telegraph. Today, technologies are used widely whichbecame easier with the help of internet to communicate and disseminate and storeinformation.THE FOUR CRADLES OF EARLY SCIENCEMESOAMERICANMesoamerican Civilizations Mayan Inca AztecContributions of the Mesoamericans The Aztecs had established a great military force. The of the Aztecs used small rectangular area of fertile land to grow crops chinampaon the shallow lake beds. The use of rubber is documented in the Maya ball game called tlatchtli. They used cocoa beans as a currency. The Maya developed an accurate calendar, also known as the Mayan Calendar. The are used by the Incan for bookkeeping Quipos The was invented by the Inca. It is a labor service that takes for in road Mita systemand bridge construction, in cultivation of corn and textile productionMIDDLE EASTContributions in the Middle East: The Arab applied the romans principles and improve the watermill known as noria. The middle East is known for their machine designed for the improvement ofirrigation, industrial work and for war. The windmill and watermill are used forcrushing sugarcanes, grinding grain, and pumping water. The book of Badic alZaman ibn alRazaz alJazari described candle and waterclocks, water vessels, fountains, automata, and water raising devices. The book written by Taqi alDin ibn Maruf alRashid alDimashqi explained steampower and a blueprint of a sixpiston pump.ASIAMajor contributions in Asia Traditional Chinese medicine acupuncture and herbal medicine were practiced Four great inventions in china: Compass, gunpowder, papermaking, printing Other: alchemy, which is a Taoist chemistryAFRICANContributions from Africa: Africa is known for the production of nuts and coffee in Ethiopia (Kola nuts are Kolamostly found in West Africa and is the basis of cola drink). Coffee was developed as a consumable drink that spread to Arabia and thenthroughout the world Africa used plants with salicylic acid for pain (aspirin) and for diarrhea (Kaopectate). They are also highly advanced in medicine such operating autopsies and caesarian. The technology involved experimentation in drainage, construction of polders,desalination, and irrigation. Evidence in 1978 suggests that they alreadymastered making steels. theinfluence of scienceinto the development of our societyokay so so what is science so there area lot of definitionsthat would clearly tell us what is thereal meaning of scienceokay so science is as old as the worldscience is always thereand but there is no individualcan that can exactly tell whenor where science began okay solet's try to see what are thedefinitions of scienceokay so science the first definition isthisscience as an idea why is it called anideabecause science it includes ideas a lotof theoriesand a lot of systematic explanationand observation about the natural andphysical worldso when you talk about science it dealsabouta lot of theoretical framework a lot oftheories that would tell usor that would explain to us the ideaabout our existencethe idea about our natural and physicalworldand that is science okay number twodefinitionis science as an intellectual activitywhy it is intellectual to digthe deeper meaning of something it isthe also be dealing aboutabout experimentation about all thethings that you have observedin our physical world and that isscienceit deals about our intellectual activitybecausebecause of our curiosity we canwe can do something about it that is whyscience is also consideredan intellectual activity okay the thirdone the third definition of science isscienceas a body of knowledge what isconsidered as the body of knowledgebecause it deals with the learning withthe process of learningit is a body of knowledge because itdeals with the process of learningabout the natural and physical worldbecause you talk about science when youwant to learn somethingwe when you want to understand things itis calledscience and for me science is veryimportantbecause that is the start when you trytoto do experiment when you try toacknowledge the importance of thingstherefore we are also embracing the ideaof sciencethat is why it is considered as a bodyof knowledgethe fourth one science as a personal andsocial activitywhy it is so because scienceit is a means to improve life and tosurvive in lifebecause as what you can see when youtalk about sciencebecause of science we try totransform our lives into the societybecause of science there are a lot ofchanges in our physical world that's whyscience talks about social activitybecause of our curiosity because of ourinteraction with the physical worldthere are a lot of improvements a lot ofchanges that is happening around usscience is very significant especiallyfor us human beingsand we can't deny the fact that sciencereally helps usin improving our lives to be better weare so curious aboutwhat to do next what are your plans whatare the nextthe next um what are the next plan ofour generationand that's how science really evolvedtake note because of our curiositybecause of ourpersistently observing somethingthat is how we find meanings that iswhere we find answers from our from alot of questionsthat's why science is very significantfor human beings because without sciencewe cannot improve something we can't dosomething to improve our livesand that's how science really evolved inthe life of human beings casebecause we try to seek meaning becausewe try to answer a lot of questionsthat is the time there is the idea ofscientific revolutionso take note scientific revolution wasthe periodof enlightenment where the developmenttransformed the views of societyso when you talk about scientificrevolution we are trying to evolveourselvesand that is the time of period ofenlightenment why because we are tryingto change somethingwe are trying to evolve from ourprevious lifeto to now we are trying toto do something out of our curiosity andthat is scientific revolution that iswhywe are here now we are currentlyembarking the idea of scientificrevolutionokay so because of this idea because ofscientific revolutionpeople we as human beings we try toreflectwe try to rethink and to reexamine ourown belief and our way of lifeso because of our scientific revolutionwe were we are able to thinkto reexamine to rethink to reflectabout our own lives are we doingsomething goodor can we still do something more andthat is the idea of scientificrevolutionthat's why people are changing our wayof life are changingthe way we do things are also changingbecause of scientific revolutionscience until now science is verysignificant for human beings because weneed toto evolve we need to change from ourfrom our current life to the futureso we need to be adaptable we need to beflexible and that is part of sciencethat is scientific revolutionthis scientific revolution is verysignificantwhy it is significant because it is thedevelopment of human beingsif there is no scientific revolution howcan we develop as a personhow can we transform our societyand how how can we come up with ourscientific ideasright soyoutube students know thatthis isthrough sign language not only movementso that is scientific revolutionthere are a lot of scientificrevolutionsdiscover caroline that it can reallyhelp us in to the futurethat can really help us to become betterthat can really help us to do somethingmore for ourselvesand that is the idea of scientificrevolutionokay so take note because ofits improvement and because of ourcuriosity because of experimentationscientific revolution transformed thenaturalworld and the world of ideas right ifthere is no scientific revolutionif there is no change in the way wethink on the way how wehow we do things how we reflect on thethings that we dolife is just stagnantour the way we understand things is justvery stagnant if there is no if there isno scientific revolutionokay so so we need to transformour natural world and the world of ideasespecially for the young generationkaronthere are a lot of brilliant studentsthere are a lot ofbrilliant minds that really need toreally we really need to maximizeto maximize their learning potentialbecauseif we will support them it can reallyhelp usto become better as as a community as aspart of the societyso we need to embark the idea ofscientific revolutionokay so to further understandwhat exactly happened during thescientific revolutionit is important to examine the differentindividualswhose ideas have shaken and dominatetheories orideas during this period so if you wantto understand the idea of scientificrevolution how it startedwho started it kayla said to toexamine the different individuals whocontributedmuch more on the idea of scientificrevolutionokay so scientists are driven by theirown curiositybecause of their curiosity a lot ofscientists are trying to thinkdeeper they are trying to thinkmore they are trying to think beyondbeyond on the things that we think okaythey are so they they are socritical they are critical thinkersrightand because of their because of theircuriosity and their love for sciencetheir their passion to know and todiscoverthey attributed to what we are doing nowso that's whyso that's why we needto have an eagerness to know and todiscoverto to be better to be a better communityto be a better person andto contributed ourselvesas part of the society okay soin this part of lessons let's try to seethreenotable scientists that have contributedor shaken the idea ofscientific revolution so the firstpersonis nicolas copernicusokay so what is his idea so let's have aquick background about himhe did not do anything extensive such asobserving heavenly bodies orwriting people to test his ideas hisideas was more into thought experimentit's all about pizza it's all abouttrying to understand the way we thinkokay so in his book he published a bookand he wanted a model of the universe inwhich everything moved arounda single center at unvarying ratesso what does it mean the idea ofcopernicus stated that the sunis the centerpiece of the universe sothat is his thoughtso according to him the sun is thecenterpiece of the universeand the sun is surrounded by the earthand all the planets okay it all startedfrom histoperniko's place the sun to bethe centerpiece of the universeso according to him the sun is thecenterpiece of the universeand the sun is surrounded by the earthand all the planetsand his idea and his model tries to itries to seethe length of time it will take for eachplanet to orbit around the sunso that is that that is howhis thought experiment started why a lotof scientists are trying to explain theidea of copernicus modelthat's why a lot of them may disagree orsome will agree or not agree with histhought okayso that is where scientific revolutionstarted with nicolas copernicus it allstartedwith his thought thought experimentokay so the second person is charlesdarwinso charles darwin is famous for histheory of evolution and i think we'reall familiar with charles darwin theevolution of manthat we all came from ape okay so hechanged our concept of the world'screation and its evolutionright so that's what you can see darwinas a genius who came from uh from a lineof intellectually gifted and wealthyfamilyso darwin published his book the originof speciesand his book is one of the mostimportant works in scientific literatureokay so his book presented evidence onhowspecies would it would evolveover time and presented traits and thisadaptation that differentiates speciesso what does it mean by darwin thatpeople we are evolving over time we arechanging over timeand we have certain traits of adaptationwe are capable to adapt we are capableto make adjustmentas humans we are capable to make someadjustmentsokay so darwin's observational skills asa scientist were extraordinarybecause he tries to explain things hetries to dig deeperthat move beyond the realms of plantsand animalsinto the realms of humans so it isextraordinary because instead offocusing only to the evolutionof plants and animals darwin also focuson thehe he goes up to to therealms of humans the evolution of manthat's why it is considered asextraordinary skillsbecause of his observational skillsright he was able to move beyond therealms of plants and animals into therealms of humansokay so his book is the descent of manwas soimpressive it was so impressive but yetcontroversial it is controversialbecausewe assume once we can't accept that youcame from eightso that's why it is it is a lot a lot ofthings shouldbe discussed before accepting that oneokay so hehe introduced the idea of an of allorganic lifeincluding us including human beings heexplained ourour evolution okay as human beingsso under the realm of evil evolutionarythinkingokay so as humans we are evolvingand as far as i can remember charlesdarwinalso stated that man man came from apeand a lot of religious individualscannot accept the fact that we came fromapeit is because as human being wewe only accept that humans are createdin the image and likeness of godthat's how scientific revolution startedwithcharles darwin okay so the third one thethird personthat shaken the idea of scientificrevolutionis stigma freud okay so who is sigmundfreud i really love sigmund freudright okay so freud is a famous figurein the field of psychologyfreud also made a significantcontribution in the scientificworld through the development of animportantobservational method to gather reliabledatato study humans inner lifeokay freud's idea talks aboutpsychoanalysishe is very famous because he made agreater contributionin the in the study of human behaviorin the study of human's inner lifeand his method is commonly known as themethod of psychoanalysis he is more heis the father of psychoanalytic theoryhe focuses more on and ourin our inner life humans in freud themethod of psychoanalysis is a scientificwayto study the human mind and neuroticillnesshere's more into understanding how wethinkhow we how we behaveso despite academic controversy hismethod of psychoanalysishad made a great impact in thescientific way of understanding humannatureokay so despite of academic controversya lot of questioninga lot of a lot of debatea lot of debate based on his uhidea is his idea really contributedmuch in the scientific way ofunderstanding human natureso what you can see freud is freud isnot just a traditional thinkerhis method was an orthodoxhe focuses more on human sexuality andthe evil nature of manthat is how sigmund freud thinkhe is not just a follower he is not atraditional thinkerhe tries to see on our human sexualityand the evil nature of manso to some people we found this idea noteasy especially in his explanation ofhuman sexualitybut take note the fact remains thatthat the freudian ideas and theories arestillconsidered as a great inspirationto examine human mind and behavior in amore scientificallyaccepted way so that isthe idea of sigmund freud despite thethe academic controversy but we can'tdeny the fact that his ideahad made a great impact in the study ofhumanmind in the study of human behaviorand trying to explain how people arebehaving that waybecause they try to focus on the humansexualityand the evil nature of manso thank you so much for listening andfor watching this video till the endi hope you are learning from this videoso just a quick recapthis vlog focuses more on theintellectualand the intellectual and theintellectual revolutions that definesocietyso take note because of because ofscientific revolutionbecause of scientific revolution we wereablewe were able to to change our lives tobe better we were able to adapt to acertain situation we were able toquestionthings we were able to embrace new ideaswe were able to to assess ifif what we are doing is still good ornot for us that is because of scientificrevolutionand that's how we def and that's how itinfluences the way we deal with oursocietyThe Copernican Revolution was a major scientific and philosophical change that occurred during the 16th and 17th centuries. It is named after the Polish astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus, who is known for his theory of heliocentrism. This theory challenged the prevailing belief at the time that the Earth was the center of the universe, and it marked a significant shift in the way people thought about the cosmos and their place in it.Before the Copernican Revolution, the dominant view of the universe was the geocentric model, which held that the Earth was stationary at the center of the universe, and that the sun, moon, planets, and stars all revolved around it. This view was based on the teachings of ancient Greek philosophers, including Aristotle and Ptolemy, and it was widely accepted in the Western world for more than a thousand years.Copernicus, however, challenged this view with his theory of heliocentrism, which proposed that the sun, not the Earth, was at the center of the universe, and that the planets, including the Earth, orbited around it. Copernicus’ theory was not entirely new, as some ancient Greek astronomers had also proposed a heliocentric view of the universe, but it was the first to provide a comprehensive mathematical model that could account for the observed movements of the planets.Copernicus’ book “De revolutionibus orbium coelestium” (On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres), published in 1543, presented his heliocentric theory along with extensive astronomical observations and calculations. However, his theory was not immediately accepted, as it contradicted the teachings of the Catholic Church, which held that the Earth was the center of the universe and that God had placed humans at its center. It was not until the work of Galileo Galilei, Johannes Kepler, and Isaac Newton that the heliocentric model began to gain widespread acceptance. Galileo was the first to use a telescope to observe the heavens, and his observations of the phases of Venus, the moons of Jupiter, and the mountains and craters on the moon provided strong evidence in favor of Copernican theory. Kepler, a German astronomer and mathematician, refined and extended Copernicus’ theory, showing that the planets move in elliptical orbits around the sun, rather than in perfect circles as had been assumed. This led to a more accurate understanding of the movements of the planets, and paved the way for Newton’s laws of motion and universal gravitation. Newton’s work, published in his “Principia Mathematica” in 1687, provided a mathematical explanation for the motions of the planets and other celestial objects, based on the laws of physics. This allowed scientists to predict the movements of the planets and to make more accurate astronomical observations. The Copernican Revolution had farreaching implications, not only for astronomy and physics, but also for philosophy, religion, and politics. It challenged the idea that humans were at the center of the universe and that the universe was designed for their benefit. It also undermined the authority of the Catholic Church, which had long been a dominant force in Western society. The Copernican Revolution paved the way for the Scientific Revolution of the 17th century, which saw major advances in mathematics, physics, astronomy, and other sciences. It also had a profound impact on the Enlightenment of the 18th century, which emphasized reason, individualism, and progress, and challenged traditional authority structures. In conclusion, the Copernican Revolution was a major scientific and philosophical change that challenged the prevailing view of the universe and paved the way for new discoveries and advances in science and philosophy.LESSON 1INTELLECTUAL REVOLUTIONS THAT DEFINED SOCIETYLESSON OBJECTIVESAt the end of this lesson, the students should be able to:▪discuss how the ideas postulated by Copernicus, Darwin, and Freud contributed tothe spark of scientific revolution; and▪analyze how scientific revolution is done in various parts of the world like in LatinAmerica, East Asia, Middle East, and Africa.INTRODUCTIONThis lesson will give light to the development of science and scientific ideas in the heart ofthe society. It is the goal of this lesson to articulate ways by which society is transformed by scienceand technology.Scientific RevolutionScience is as old as the world itself. There is no individual that can exactly identify whenand where science began. From the genesis of time, science has existed. It is always interwovenwith the society. So, how can science be defined?1. Science as an idea. It includes ideas, theories, and all available systematic explanationsand observations about the natural and physical world.2. Science as an intellectual activity. It encompasses a systematic and practical study of thenatural and physical world. This process of study involves systematic observation andexperimentation3. Science as a body of knowledge. It is a subject or a discipline, a field of study, or a body ofknowledge that deals with the process of learning about the natural and physical world.This is what we refer to as school science.4. Science as a personal and social activity. This explains that science is both knowledgeand activities done by human beings to develop better understanding of the world aroundthem. It is a means to improve life and to survive in life. It is interwoven with people's lives.Human beings have embarked in scientific activities in order to know and understandeverything around them. They have persistently observed and studied the natural and the physicalworld in order to find meanings and seek answers to many questions. They have developed nobleideas, later known as philosophy, to provide alternative or possible explanations to certainphenomena. Humans also used religion to rationalize the origins of life and all lifeless forms.The idea of scientific revolution is claimed to have started in the early 16th century up tothe 18th century in Europe. Why in Europe? The probable answer is the invention of the printingmachine and the blooming intellectual activities done in various places of learning, and thegrowing number of scholars in various fields of human interests. This does not mean, however,that science is a foreign idea transported from other areas of the globe. Anyone who can examinethe history of science, technology, medicine, and mathematics is aware that all great civilizationsof the ancient world had their own sophisticated traditions and activities relate to thesedisciplines.Scientific revolution was the period of enlightenment when the developments in the fieldsof mathematics, physics, astronomy, biology, and chemistry transformed the views of society aboutnature. It explained the emergence or birth of modern science as a result of these developmentsfrom the disciplines mentioned. The ideas generated during this period enabled the people toreflect, rethink, and reexamine their beliefs and their way of life. There is no doubt that it ignitedvast human interests to rethink how they do science and view scientific processes.Scientific revolution was the golden age for people committed to scholarly life in science butit was also a deeply trying moment to some scientific individuals that led to their painful death orcondemnation from the religious institutions who tried to preserve their faith, religion, andtheological views. Some rulers and religious leaders did not accept many of the early works ofscientists. But these did not stop people especially scientists to satisfy their curiosity of the naturaland physical world.Influences to Scientific RevolutionScientific revolution is very significant in the development of human beings, transformationof the society, and in the formulation of scientific ideas. It significantly improved the conduct ofscientific investigations, experiments, and observations. The scientific revolution also led to thecreation of new research fields in science and prompted the establishment of a strong foundationfor modern science. In many ways, scientific revolution transformed the natural world and theworld of ideas.Some Intellectuals and their Revolutionary IdeasTo further understand what exactly happened during the scientific revolution, it isimportant to examine the different individuals whose ideas have shaken and contested thedominant theories and ideas during this periodthe truths of their time. Scientists in all periodsof time are driven by their curiosity, critical thinking, and creativity to explore the physical andnatural world. Their love for science is driven by their deep passionto know andto discover.SCIENCE IDEASHUMANS SOCIETYSCIENTIFICREVOLUTIONSVariables that Influence the Development of Science Ideas, ScienceDiscoveries, and TechnologyScientists are not driven by clamor for honor and publicity. They are ordinary people doingextraordinary things. Some scientists were never appreciated during their times, some weresentenced to death, while others were condemned by the Church during their time. In spite of allthe predicaments and challenges they experienced, they never stopped experimenting, theorizing,and discovering new knowledge and ideas.In this part of the lesson, three notable scientists are discussed. For sure, there were manyscientists who worked before and after these individuals. However, it is important to note thatthese men, particularly through their ideas, had shaken the world.Nicolaus CopernicusOne of the Renaissance men, particularly in the field of science, is Nicolaus Copernicus.Knowledge about the nature of the universe had been essentially unchanged since the great daysof Ancient Greece, some 1,500 years before Copernicus came on the scene (Gribbin, 2003). Thiscontinued up to the Renaissance period. In one important way, Copernicus resembled the Greekancient philosophers or thinkershe did not do anything extensive such as observing heavenlybodies or inviting people to test his ideas. His ideas were an example of what is presently called asa thought experiment. By the time he finished his doctorate degree, Copernicus had beenappointed as canon at Frombork Cathedral in Poland. Despite his duty as a canon, he had plentyof time to sustain his interest in astronomy. Copernicus was strongly influenced by a book entitledEpitome published in 1496 by a German author, Johannes Müeller. This book contains Müeller'sobservations of the heavens and some commentary on earlier works especially that of Ptolemy.Copernicus's idea and model of the universe was essentially complete in 1510. Not long afterthat, he circulated a summary of his ideas to his few close friends in a manuscript calledCommentariolus (Little Commentary). There was no proof that Copernicus was concerned aboutthe risk of persecution by the Church if he published his ideas formally.Copernicus was a busy man. His duty as a canon and as a doctor affected his time to formallypublish his work and advance his career in astronomy. The publication of his bookDerevolutionibus orbium coelestium (On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres) in 1543 is oftencited as the start of the scientific revolution.Creativity SCIENTISTSPassion toKnowPassion todiscoverSCIENCE IDEASSCIENCEDISCOVERIESTECHNOLOGYCuriosityCriticalThinkingIn his book, he wanted a model of the universe in which everything moved around a singlecenter at unvarying rates (Gribbin, 2003). Copernicus placed the Sun to be the centerpiece of theuniverse. The Earth and all the planets are surrounding or orbiting the Sun each year. The Moon,however, would still be seen orbiting the Earth. Copernicus's model of the Earth orbiting aroundthe Sun automatically positioned the planets into a logical sequence. In his model, Copernicusoutlined two kinds of planetary motion: (1) the orbits of Venus and Mercury lay inside the orbit ofthe Earth, thus, closer to the Sun; and (2) the orbits of Mars, Saturn, and Jupiter lay outside theEarth's orbit, thus, farther from the Sun. From this model, he would work on the length of time itwill take for each planet to orbit once around the Sun. The result would form a sequence fromMercury, with a shortest year, through Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn with the longestyear. He placed the planets in order of increasing distance from the Sun. One of the great problemsin the Copernicus model, however, was the position of the stars. The stars cannot be placed in afixed position like crystals in a distance sphere.Copernicus is also a courageous man. Although the Copernican model makes sense now,during those times, it was judged to be heretic and therefore it was an unacceptable idea to betaught to Catholics. The Catholic Church banned the Copernican model and was ignored by Romefor the rest of the 16th century.Charles DarwinCharles Darwin is famous for his theory of evolution. He changed our concept of the world'screation and its evolution. Johnson (2012) described Darwin as a genius who came from a line ofintellectually gifted and wealthy family. He developed his interest in natural history during histime as a student at Shrewsbury School. He would also spend time taking long walks to observehis surroundings while collecting specimens and he pored over books in his father's library(Gribbin, 2003). According to Johnson, Darwin went to the best schools but was observed to be amediocre student. He struggled in his study in medicine and ministry, which his father hasimposed to him. Darwin's life soon changed when one of his professors recommended him to join afiveyear voyage through theHMS Beagle on the Islands of Galapagos.Darwin published his bookThe Origin of Species in 1589. This book is considered to be oneof the most important works in scientific literature. Darwin collected many significant materialsin order to present his theory with overwhelming evidence. His book presented evidence on howspecies evolved over time and presented traits and adaptation that differentiate species. Likemany other scholars, Darwin accumulated many pertinent materials and data that he could everpossibly need to substantiate his theory.Darwin's observational skills as a scientist were extraordinary that moved beyond therealms of plants and animals into the realms of humans. His bookThe Descent of Man was soimpressive yet very controversial. He introduced the idea of all organic life, including humanbeings, under the realm of evolutionary thinking. This replaced the dominant views of a religiousor biblical design that places human beings in a privileged position of having been created by God.Darwin's theory of evolution scientifically questioned this view.Darwin's accomplishments were so diverse that it is useful to distinguish two fields to whichhe made major contributions: evolutionary biology and philosophy of science. More than theseworks, what made Darwin truly remarkable was his courage to challenge religious and unscientificideas that are deemed to be prominent during those days. His unorthodox way of pursuing sciencegave more value to evidencebased science. Darwin provided a different framework for doingscientific activities. It is a science marked by observation and experiment.Sigmund FreudFreud is a famous figure in the field of psychology. Rosenfels (1980) also described him as atowering literary figure and a very talented communicator who did his share to raise theconsciousness of the civilized world in psychological matters.However, apart from these, Freud also made a significant contribution in the scientific worldthrough the development of an important observational method to gather reliable data to studyhuman's inner life. This method is popularly known as the method of psychoanalysis. The scientifichypothesis he formulated formed the essential fundamental version of this method. For Freud,this method of psychoanalysis is a scientific way to study the human mind and neurotic illness. Itis no doubt that amidst all questions on his works that led to some sort of academic controversy,his method of psychoanalysis had great impact on the scientific way of understanding humannature.Freud is not a traditional think According to Weiner (2016), his method of psychoanalysiswas proven to be effective in understanding some neurological conditions that were not understoodby medicine at that time. His method was unorthodoxfocusing on human sexuality and the evilnature of man. This posed immense challenges to scholars and ordinary citizens of his time. Tosome, they found his ideas not easy especially in his explanations of human sexuality.Freud was born in a much later period from the scientific revolution but his contribution toknowledge can be seen in many aspects of the human scene, including art, literature, philosophy,politics, and psychotherapy. Whether he is more of a psychologist or a scientist is for people todecide. The fact remains that Freudian ideas and theories are still considered nowadays as a greatinspiration to examine human mind and behavior in a more scientifically accepted way,CRADLES OF EARLY SCIENCEDevelopment of Science in MesoamericaMesoamerica includes the entire area of Central America from Southern Mexico up to theborder of South America. There is no doubt that the Mesoamerican region is rich in culture andknowledge prior to the arrival of its European colonizers.TheMaya civilization is one of the famous civilizations that lasted for approximately 2,000years. These people are known for their works in astronomy. They incorporated their advancedunderstanding of astronomy into their temples and other religious structures. This allows them touse their temples for astronomical observation. For example, the pyramid at Chichén Itzá inMexico is situated at the location of the Sun during the spring and fall equinoxes.Mayan knowledge and understanding about celestial bodies was advanced for their time, asevidenced by their knowledge of predicting eclipse and using astrological cycles in planting andharvesting. The Mayans are also known for measuring time using two complicated calendarsystems. These calendars were very useful for their life especially in planning their activities andin observing their religious rituals and cultural celebrations.The Mayans also developed the technology for growing different crops and buildingelaborate cities using ordinary machineries and tools. They built hydraulics system withsophisticated waterways to supply water to different communities.Furthermore, they used various tools and adapt themselves to innovations especially in thefield of arts. The Mayans built looms for weaving cloth and devised a rainbow of glittery paintsmade from a mineral called mica. They are also believed to be one of the first people to producerubber products 3,000 years before Goodyear received its patent in 1844.The Mayans are considered one of the most scientifically advanced societies in Mesoamerica.They are also famous as one of the world's first civilizations to use a writing system known as theMayan hieroglyphics. They were also skilled in mathematics and created a number system basedon the numeral 20. Moreover, they independently developed the concept of zero and positionalvalue, even before the Romans did.TheInca civilization is also famous in Mesoamerica. The Incas made advanced scientificideas considering their limitations as an old civilization. The following were scientific ideas andtools that they developed to help them in everyday life:1. roads paved with stones;2. stone buildings that surmounted earthquakes and other disasters;3. irrigation system and technique for storing water for their crops to grow in all types ofland;4. calendar with 12 months to mark their religious festivals and prepare them for plantingseason;5. the first suspension bridge;6. quipu, a system of knotted ropes to keep records that only experts can interpret; and7. Inca textiles since cloth was one of the specially prized artistic achievements.Following the Inca, theAztec civilization has also made substantial contributions to scienceand technology and to the society as a whole. Some of their contributions are the following:1. Mandatory education. The Aztec puts value on education; that is why their children aremandated to get education regardless of their social class, gender, or age. It is an earlyform of universal or inclusive education.2. Chocolates. The Aztec in Mexico developed chocolate during their time. In the Mayanculture, they used it as currency. The Aztec valued the cacao beans highly and made itas part of their tribute to their gods.3. Antispasmodic medication. They used a type of antispasmodic medication that couldprevent muscle spasms and relax muscles, which could help during surgery.4. Chinampa. It is a form of Aztec technology for agricultural farming in which the landwas divided into rectangular areas and surrounded by canals.5. Aztec calendar. This enabled them to plan their activities, rituals, and planting season.6. Invention of the canoe. A light narrow boat used for traveling in water systems.Development of Science in AsiaAsia is the biggest continent in the world and the home of many ancient civilizations. It isa host to many cultural, economic, scientific, and political activities of all ages. In the field ofscience, technology, and mathematics, great civilizations have stood out: India, China, and theMiddle East civilizations. These civilizations were incomparable in terms of their contributions tothe development of knowledge during their time.IndiaIndia is a huge peninsula surrounded by vast bodies of water and fortified by hugemountains in its northern boarders. The Indians creatively developed various ideas andtechnologies useful in their everyday lives. They are known for manufacturing iron and inmetallurgical works. Their iron steel is considered to be the best and held with high regard in thewhole of Roman Empire.India is also famous in medicine. For example, Ayurveda, a system of traditional medicinethat originated in ancient India before 2500 BC, is still practiced as a form of alternative medicine.They discovered some medicinal properties of plants that led them to develop medicines to curevarious illnesses. Some ancient texts, like theSusruta Samhita, describes different surgical andother medical procedures famous in Ancient India.Ancient India is also notable in the field of astronomy. They developed theories on theconfiguration of the universe, the spherical selfsupporting Earth, and the year of 360 days with12 equal parts of 30 days each. Sama (2008) noted that their interest in astronomy was also evidentin the first 12 chapters of theSiddhanta Shiromani, written in the 12th century. According toSama (2008), this ancient text covered topics such as: mean longitudes of the planets; truelongitudes of the planets; the three problems of diurnal rotation; syzygies; lunar eclipses; solareclipses; latitudes of the planets; risings and settings, the moon's crescent; conjunctions of theplanets with each other; conjunctions of the planets with the fixed stars; and the paths of the Sunand Moon.Ancient India is also known for their mathematics. Bisht (1982) noted that the earliesttraces of mathematical knowledge in the Indian subcontinent appeared in the Indus ValleyCivilization. The people of this civilization, according to Bisht (1982), tried to standardizemeasurement of length to a high degree of accuracy and designed a ruler, the Mohenjodaro ruler.Clifford (2008) and Bose (1998) pointed out that Indian astronomer and mathematicianAryabhata (476550), in hisAryabhatiya, introduced a number of trigonometric functions, tables,and techniques, as well as algorithms of algebra. In 628 AD, another Indian, Brahmagupta, alsosuggested that gravity was a force of attraction, and lucidly explained the use of zero as both aplaceholder and a decimal digit, along with the HinduArabic numeral system now useduniversally throughout the world (Clifford, 2008; Bose, 1998). Another Indian named Madhava ofSangamagrama is also considered as the founder of mathematical analysis (Joseph, 1991).ChinaChina is one of the ancient civilizations with substantial contributions in many areas of lifelike medicine, astronomy, science, mathematics, arts, philosophy, and music, among others.Chinese civilizations have greatly influenced many of its neighbor countries like Korea, Japan,Philippines, Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, Myanmar, and other countries that belong to the oldSilk Road.The Chinese are known for traditional medicines, a product of centuries of experiences anddiscovery of the Chinese people. They discovered various medical properties and uses of differentplants and animals to cure human illness. An example is the practice of acupuncture.In terms of technology, the Chinese are known to develop many tools. Among the famousdiscoveries and inventions of the Chinese civilizations were compass, papermaking, gunpowder,and printing tools that became known in the West only by the end of the Middle Ages (Davies,1995). They also invented other tools like iron plough, wheelbarrow, and propeller, among others.They developed a design of different models of bridges (Zhongguo ke xue yuan, 1983), invented thefirst seismological detector, and developed a dry dock facility (Needham et al., 1971).In the field of astronomy, the Chinese also made significant records on supernovas, lunarand solar eclipses, and comets, which were carefully recorded and preserved to understand betterthe heavenly bodies and their effects to our world (Mayall, 1939). They observed the heavenlybodies to understand weather changes and seasons that may affect their daily activities. They usedlunar calendars, too. The Chinese are also known in seismology. This made them more preparedin times of natural calamities.China made substantial contributions in various fields. The list of their discoveries andinventions is overwhelming. These contributions were made along with mathematics, logic,philosophy, and medicine. However, cultural factors prevented these Chinese achievements fromdeveloping into modern science. According to Needham (1986), it may have been the religious andphilosophical framework of Chinese intellectuals that made them unable to accept the ideas oflaws of nature.Middle East CountriesThe Middle East countries are dominantly occupied by Muslims. With the spread of Islamin the 7th and 8th centuries, a period of Muslim scholarship, or what is called the Golden Age ofIslam lasted until the 13th century. The common language of Arabic, access to Greek texts fromthe Byzantine Empire, and their proximity to India were contributory to the intellectualization ofthe Muslims and provided their scholars knowledge to create innovations and develop new ideas.But contrary to the Greeks, Muslim scientists placed greater value on science experiments ratherthan plainthought experiments. This led to the development of the scientific method in theMuslim world, and made significant improvements by using experiments to distinguish betweencompeting scientific theories set within a generally empirical orientation. A Muslim scientistnamed Ibn alHaytham is also regarded as the Father of Optics, especially for his empirical proofof the intromission theory of light.In mathematics, the mathematician Muhammad ibn Musa al Khwarizmi gave his name tothe concept of the algorithm while the term algebra is derived fromaljabr, the beginning of thetitle of one of his publications. What is now known as the Arabic Numeral System originally camefrom India, but Muslim mathematicians did make several refinements to the number system, suchas the introduction of decimal point notation.Muslim chemists and alchemists also played an important role in the foundation of modernchemistry (Durant, 1980). In particular, some scholars considered Jabir ibn Hayyan to be the"Father of Chemistry" (Derewenda, 2007; Warren, 2005).In the field of medicine, Ibn Sina pioneered the science of experimental medicine and wasthe first physician to conduct clinical trials (Jacquart, 2008). His two most notable works inmedicine, theBook of Healing andThe Canon of Medicine, were used as standard medicinal textsin both the Muslim world and in Europe during the 17th century. Among his many contributionsare the discovery of the contagious nature of infectious diseases and the introduction of clinicalpharmacology (Craig & Walter, 2000).There are numerous Muslim scholars who made significant contributions in the field ofscience, mathematics, astronomy, philosophy, and even in the field of social sciences. The declineof this golden age of Islam started in the 11th to 13th century due to the conquest of the Mongolswhereby libraries, observatories, and other learning institutions were destroyed.Development of Science in AfricaAfrica is blessed with natural and mineral resources. Science also emerged in this part ofthe planet long before the Europeans colonized it. The history of science and mathematics showthat similar to other ancient civilizations, the early civilizations in Africa are knowledge producers,too.The ancient Egyptian civilization has contributed immensely and made significant advancesin the fields of astronomy, mathematics, and medicine. For example, the development of geometrywas a product of necessity to preserve the layout and ownership of farmlands of the Egyptiansliving along the Nile River. The rules of geometry were developed and used to build rectilinearstructures, the post of lintel architecture of Egypt. These early science activities in Egypt weredeveloped to improve the quality of life of the Egyptians especially in building their early homesand cities. The great structures of the Egyptian pyramids and the early dams built to divert waterfrom the Nile River are some proofs of their advanced civilization.Egypt was known to be a center of alchemy, which is known as the medieval forerunner ofchemistry. They tried to study human anatomy and pharmacology, and applied importantcomponents such as examination, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis for the treatment ofdiseases. These components displayed strong parallels to the basic empirical method of studyingscience.Astronomy was also famous in the African region. For instance, documents show thatAfricans used three types of calendars: lunar, solar, and stellar, or a combination of the three.Metallurgy was also known in the African regions during the ancient times. North Africaand the Nile Valley imported iron technology from the Near East region that enabled them tobenefit from the developments during the Bronze Age until the Iron Age. They invented metaltools used in their homes, in agriculture, and in building their magnificent architectures.Mathematics was also known to be prominent in the life of early people in the Africancontinent. The Lebombo Bone from the mountains between Swaziland and South Africa, whichmay have been a tool for multiplication, division, and simple mathematical calculation or a sixmonth lunar calendar, is considered to be the oldest known mathematical artifact dated from35,000 BCE. Ancient Egyptians are good in the four fundamental mathematical operations andother mathematical skills. They have knowledge of the basic concepts of algebra and geometry.The Islamic regions in Africa during the medieval period was also benefiting from mathematicallearning, which is considered advanced during those times, such as algebra, geometry, andtrigonometry.SUMMARYScientific revolution is a golden age in the history of science. It marked the birth of science as adiscipline and as a field of inquiry and gave birth to the development of the scientific method. It was a timein the history of science where many scientific ideas and discoveries, which were considered innovativeand useful, were developed. Some of these ideas were also controversial in the scientific community and inthe political arena. The scientific revolution significantly changed how people study science and doscientific activities. It inspired human creativity and critical thinking, moving away from thoughtexperiments to datadriven and experimentbased ideas.There were many intellectuals who made essential contributions in science during the period ofscientific revolution. Nicolaus Copernicus developed a model of the universe in which everything movedaround a single center at unvarying rates. He placed the Sun in the center of the universe and all theplanets were surrounding or orbiting it. Copernicus's model of planets orbiting around the Sunautomatically positioned the planets into a logical sequence. Charles Darwin made significant contributionin the field of evolutionary biology and philosophy of science. His theory of evolution by natural selectionis very useful in many fields until now. Sigmund Freud developed the idea of psychoanalysis that helpedin understanding human behavior especially neurological conditions.Science also developed in different parts of the world: in Asia, Europe, Mesoamerica, and Africa.People in these continents invented tools to help them in everyday life, discovered medicines to curediseases, observed heavenly bodies, built structures, discovered many things, and invented mathematicsas a tool and as a discipline. Science provided different ancient civilizations the means to survive andunderstand the natural and physical world. It also enabled human beings to develop various technologiesthat helped them in their everyday tasks.Urban revival in Italy (c.8001200)The first stirrings of revival from anarchy in Western Europe took place in Italy. There were three reasonsfor this. First of all, the Roman cities were older and more deeply rooted than cities in NorthernEurope. Second, their position in the middle of the Mediterranean attracted trade from the richer Byzantineand Muslim civilizations in the East. Finally, the Byzantine Empire, which ruled parts of Italy, protected itstowns there from at least some of the chaos of the times. Italian towns were much reduced in size from thedays of the Roman Empire, but they still functioned as religious centers ruled by bishops as well as centersof defense.In the eighth century, the popes had summoned the Frankish rulers, Pepin the Short and Charlemagne toItaly to defend them against the Lombards. Especially as a result of Charlemagne's campaigns, thenorthern half of Italy came under Frankish rule. After Charlemagne's death in 814, law and order collapsedwith the central government, but the Frankish nobles left behind by Charlemagne remained as the powerin the countryside while the bishops ruled the cities.The turmoil following Charlemagne's death attracted waves of Muslim raids These raids reached their peakin the ninth and tenth centuries, and, at one point, the Muslims even controlled part of Rome. Eventually,they were driven out, leaving the Frankish nobles in the countryside to fight one another for control ofNorthern Italy. Holding the balance of power in these struggles were the bishops in the towns. In order toenlist the bishops' aid, the Frankish nobles promised various rights to them. Typically, the first of theserights was to build their own fortifications. Since such projects were expensive, the Franks gave the bishopsthe right to collect taxes. And along with that would come certain judicial rights that also brought in courtfees. Over time, the bishops' power and their desire to break free from the nobles steadily grew.Luckily for the bishops, a strong German state with interests in Italy was emerging under Otto I. At thepope's request, Otto came down and crushed the power of the nobles and left the bishops in the cities ashis agents of control in Northern Italy. This resulted in two things. For one thing, the pope rewarded Ottoin 961 with the Roman imperial title that Charlemagne had been given 160 years before. For the next 850years, the aura of the imperial title would influence German rulers' policy and be the cause of ruin forGermany. However, at this time, a strong Germany, or Holy Roman Empire as it came to be called, wasuseful for protecting the peace in Italy. Second, the Italian cities, now freed from the nobles, started to takethe offensive against the Muslim raiders. By 1200, Italian navies and merchants would be powerful enoughto dominate the Mediterranean, help the Crusaders conquer and maintain their states in Syria andPalestine, and even conquer Constantinople in 1204.Together, these factors brought peace and security from the Muslims and Frankish nobles, which led to therevival of towns and trade. At first, this benefited the bishops ruling the cities since it brought in more taxesfrom trade. But it also meant the rise of a middle class of artisans and merchants in each city who wereincreasingly dissatisfied with living under the rule of the bishops. Eventually, they rose up against thebishops and overthrew them, establishing independent town governments known as communes. As noblesmoved into the towns where many of them took up trade and merchants seized more and more politicalpower, the distinction between nobles and middle class became somewhat blurred. What emerged in Italywas a new nobility known asmagnates (literally "great ones") that was a fusion of these two groups.It is important to note that while we talk about Italy as a country, it still existed as a patchwork of differentand competing states. Northern Italy, in particular, was made up of a large number of independent citystates, the most important being Venice (a former Byzantine city), Genoa, Pisa, and, later on, Milan andFlorence. It was these cities that led the way for Western Europe to emerge from the Early MiddleAges. Their example and wealth would help spark a similar revival of towns north of the Alps. However,as we shall see, the political development of Northern Europe would be quite different from that of Italy,giving rise to the emergence of what would be our modern nation states.The agricultural revolution in medieval EuropeUntil this century, the vast majority of people spent their lives involved in one basic occupation: gettingfood, either through hunting and gathering, herding, or agriculture. When these people could produce asurplus, they were freed to do other things, which provided the basis for towns, cities, andcivilization. Without the ability to produce surplus food, no civilization would be able to survive. Therefore,it should come as no surprise that the first step in building a new civilization in Western Europe wasdeveloping ways for producing a surplus of food.Europe (c.1000 C.E.)Before discussing these new agricultural techniques, it is useful to look at the state of Medieval life andagriculture in the Early Middle Ages. The vast majority of peasants were serfs, bound to the soil and serviceof a lord who owed them protection in return for work in his fields. These serfs lived in villages, isolatedpockets of farmland in the midst of a vast wilderness of forests, thickets, and marshes. Typically, a villagewould have several acres of cultivated fields, a wooden castle or manor house for the lord, a peasant village,a parish church, and a mill. A village might be equivalent to a manor, the economic unit given to support anoble. However, it could just as well be divided into several manors to support several nobles or be onlyone of several villages making up a large manor.The village had to be selfsufficient because it was virtually cut off from the outside world. Roads were poorand brigands or local lords constantly threatened travel. Raids from neighboring nobles and such invadersas the Vikings, Magyars, and Moslems also kept most people huddled under the safety of their lord's castlewalls. As a result, the flow of trade and commerce was reduced to a fraction of what it had been during thePax Romana. Compared to the thriving Byzantine and Islamic cultures to the south and east, WesternEurope was a fragile outpost on the western fringe of civilization.Europe’s agriculture reflected this low level of culture. The plow used then was still the scratch plow thatworked fine in the thin dry soils of the Mediterranean, but was not very suitable for the wetter, deeper soilsof Northern Europe. Such a plow might be reinforced with iron, or it might be nothing more than a curveddigging stick. The main source of power for pulling the plow was the ox hooked up by a yoke harness thatpulled at the neck. Although slow, the ox was more than some peasants could afford. As a result, theyhad to pull their own plows or dig with spades (known as delving). Finally, the peasants used the twofieldsystem, where one field lay fallow to reclaim the soil's nutrients while the other field was beingcultivated. This left only fifty percent of the farmland for use in any given year. As a result, crop yields werevery low. In the Roman Empire, for every bushel of seed grain planted, four bushels would be harvested. Inthe Early Middle Ages with the poor techniques being used, this ratio dropped to one and a half or two toone. In other words, a full half or more of a peasant's harvest had to be saved as seed grain for next year'splanting. In years of famine, this led to serious difficulties. Given these limits, it should come as no surprisethat population remained low and grew at a very slow rate, if at all.One has to be very careful when generalizing about what techniques were used where. This is becausewe have little evidence to go on, especially concerning the peasants, whose lives were of little concern tothe monks writing religious histories. Also, the poor communications between manors meant that widelydifferent techniques and tools might be used in a fairly local area. However, it does seem likely that thelight scratch plow, oxen, yoke harness, and twofield system were in general use in Western Europe in theEarly Middle Ages. Then came some changes that would lay the foundations for more advancedcivilization.First stirrings of revivalIt is impossible to say when population first started expanding in Western Europe, although we can makesome educated guesses. For one thing, the climate seems to have turned warmer in the 800's. We basethis on tree ring evidence and the fact that the Vikings could sail in northern latitudes unobstructed byice. The warmer climate meant longer growing seasons, better harvests, and thus a healthier and growingpopulation. Major plagues that had hit intermittently since the later Roman Empire also ceased after 743C.E. This might be partly a result of the betterfed population having more resistance to disease. Finally,a certain amount of political stability had returned to Western Europe by 1000 C.E. The feudal system,whatever its faults, was providing at least a minimal amount of security to Europe. Along with this, theinvasions of Vikings, Magyars, and Muslims were letting up by this date. The increased stability created byall these factors helped provide the conditions needed for population growth and economic revival. Thisbrings us to new farming techniques that would greatly expand food supplies and lead to the rise of towns.An agricultural revolutionThe first of these techniques was the threefield system. Originally, the spread of civilization to NorthernEurope brought with it the twofield system. This was well suited to the climate of the Mediterranean withits hot dry summers and one growing season in the cooler, wetter winters. The more temperate climate ofNorthern Europe allowed growing seasons in both summer and winter. However, planting two crops a yearwould exhaust the soil if peasants used the old twofield system. As a result, peasants divided theirfarmland into three fields, one for winter crops, one for summer crops, and one to remain fallow. The useof the fields was rotated each year. A second part of the system, in order to prevent soil exhaustion, wasto use different crops that took different nutrients from the soil. The winter crop typically would consist ofwinter wheat or rye, and the spring crop would be either spring wheat or legumes (beans or peas). Thegreater variety of crops provided people with a more balanced diet. Also an advantage of legumes is thatthey take nitrogen out of the air rather than the soil, and when buried, actually replenish the soil withnitrogen. (The Romans referred to this as "green manuring".) The following charts show how the twosystems work.TWOFIELD SYSTEMField 1 Field 2Year I Winter crop FallowYear II Fallow Winter cropYear III Winter crop FallowTHREEFIELD SYSTEMField 1 Field 2 Field 3Year I Winter crop Summer crop FallowYear II Fallow Winter crop SummerYear III Summer crop Fallow Winter cropYear IV Winter crop Summer crop FallowConsider what the changeover from the twofield system would have meant to a peasant village farming 60acres. In the old system, only 30 acres would be planted each year. In the new threefield system 40 acreswould be planted, an increase of 33%. Also, peasants would plow the fallow land twice to keep weedsdown. In the two field system, this mean, plowing all 60 acres once plus the 30 fallow acres again, 90 acresof plowing in all. The threefield system involved plowing all 60 acres plus only 20 acres of fallow again, atotal of only 80 acres of plowing. Thus while producing 33% more food, the peasants were plowingconsiderably less, especially considering what hard work plowing was back then. The extra time savedcould be used for clearing new farmland from the surrounding wilderness, which, of course, meant evenmore food. Likewise, the extra food meant more people from population growth, who would also clear newlands to produce more food, and so on. Eventually, enough new land would be cleared and surplus foodproduced to support population in towns.Another major development in farming was the heavy plow that could cut through the deep, wet, and heavysoils of Northern Europe much better than the light scratch plow. It had three basic parts: the coulter orheavy knife that cut through the soil vertically, the plowshare that cut through the soil horizontally, andthe mouldboard, which turned the soil to one side. Some models had two wheels that acted as a fulcrumto keep the plow from getting stuck. There were two advantages to this kind of plow. First, it cut the soilso violently that there was no need for cross plowing as there was with the scratch plow. This saved time,which could be used for, among other things, clearing more land and producing more food. Second, theheavy plow created furrows, little ridges, and valleys in each plowed row. In times of drought, water woulddrain into the valleys and ensure some crops would survive. In times of heavy rains, the crops on top ofthe ridges would not get flooded out. As a result, peasants could usually look forward to at least somecrops to harvest even in bad years. The furrows the heavy plow created also meant that the rich alluvialbottomlands by rivers could be farmed without their frequent floods doing too much damage. As with thethreefield system and crop rotation, the heavy plow also fed into the feedback cycle of more food,population growth, etc.The heavy plow had an impact on peasant society and land holding patterns. Being heavy, it required asmany as eight oxen to pull it compared to two oxen on the scratch plow. Since few peasants could affordtheir own teams, they would combine their ox teams and hook them to one plow. Occasionally, disputesmight arise as to whose land would be plowed first, especially if the weather had been bad and it wasdoubtful that all the fields could get plowed in time for a good crop. As a result, peasants split their landsinto long strips and interspersed them among other peasants' and the lord's strips. Some peasants mighthave 50 or 60 strips spread out over the manor. The advantage of this was twofold. First of all, it ensuredthat everyone got at least some land plowed. Second, the long strips of land meant that the plow team didnot have to turn as much, one of the most difficult aspects of plowing, especially with four rows of oxen toincrease the turning radius. The heavy plow also created a more cooperative peasant society and causedsmall hamlets to combine into larger villages in order to share ox teams.The last major development in farming was a new source of power, the plow horse. Several factors allowedthe use of the horse in Western Europe. The invention of the horseshoe (c.900 C.E.) prevented the hoovesof the horse from cracking in the cold wet soil. The horse collar let the horse pull from the chest rather thanthe neck. This increased the horse's pulling power from about 1000 lbs. (with the yoke harness) to as muchas 5000 lbs. with the horse collar. Finally, cross breeding to make larger warhorses also provided thepeasants with larger plow horses. Although it could not pull any more than an ox, the horse did have twoadvantages. It could pull up to fifty percent faster than the ox, and it could work one to two hours longerper day. The one drawback was that the horse ate a lot. Overall, despite eating more, the plow horsecould increase farm production as much as 30 percent for those peasants who could afford horses. Aswith the three field system and heavy plow, this led to the feedback cycle of producing more food, populationgrowth, and developing new lands for even more food production, etc.There were some interesting side effects of the use of the horse. Being fifty percent faster than oxen,horses could bring food into a town from outlying villages fifty percent farther away without taking any moretime than before with an ox team. Increasing the radius of the surrounding farmland supplying a town byfifty percent more than doubled the area of farmland and amount of agricultural produce available to supportthat town, and, subsequently, the potential size of the town itself. In addition, the replacement of the twowheeled cart with the fourwheeled wagon with a hinged post for greater maneuverability increased theamount of grain a peasant could bring into town.We should keep in mind the limits to medieval agriculture. While a yield to seed ratio of four to one wasgood back then, farmers today expect at least ten times that. What this means is that for centuries it tookten farmers to create enough surplus to support one townsman. Still, along with the greater stability broughtby feudalism, the increased food production brought on by the agricultural revolution of the Middle Ageswas essential for the revival of towns, without which our own civilization would not have evolved.The rise of towns in Western Europe (c.10001300)A. From trade fairs to townsIn the twelfth century, towns and trade in Western Europe, which had long been in decay since the end ofthe Roman Empire, saw a renewed outburst of energy. A combination of four factors would lead tothis. First, there were the old Roman cities in Italy that had evolved from centers of defense into thrivingtowns with a strong middle class primarily concerned with trade and manufacture.Second, another area, Flanders (roughly equivalent to modern Belgium), soon saw the development oftowns and trade also. Crucial to this was the wool industry started by a new monastic order, theCistercians. These monks were part of the ongoing cycle of Church corruption and reform that usuallystarted with the monasteries. To protect their spiritual purity from the corruption of the outside world, theywould found their houses "far from the haunts of men." Oftentimes, this was on hilly rocky ground that wasoften unsuitable for farming. Other uses were found for it, in particular, raising sheep. The Cistercianswere well organized and very good at raising sheep and wool, which they traded to Flemish merchants,who started a wool industry and towns.However, the Flemish had a problem that limited the scope of their operations: slow weaving on the oldhand loom. Luckily, an improved mechanical loom came up from Muslim Spain sometime in the eleventhcentury. This device, possibly originating in China, eliminated hand weaving the weft thread in and outbetween each individual warp thread. Instead, foot pedals attached to every other warp thread would raisethose threads and speed up the process of weaving in one direction. Another foot pedal would raise theother warp threads for the weft coming back. This increased wool production, but the traditional method ofspinning thread with the drop could not keep up with the pace of weaving. Not until the thirteenth century,thanks largely to the crusades and increased contact with the East, was the spinning wheel introduced,which quickly pulled and spun wool through a spindle and wound it on a bobbin. Woolen production jumpedby a factor of ten times and Flemish woolens became the basis of a thriving urban culture in northernEurope.Indeed, Flemish wool was a highly valued commodity, reputedly being as smooth as silk. The tendrils ofFlemish trade stretched far and wide, but especially across the Channel to buy rough English wool forweaving into fine Flemish product. The close economic ties this bred between England and Flanders, thena French vassal, would help lead to the Hundred Years War. The influence of Flemish woolens alsoreached southward to Italy and beyond, touching off trade at intervening points in France where towns nextrevived.The emerging feudal order helped make possible two other factors vital to the rise of towns and trade. Onewas the agricultural revolution that could support town populations. The other was the end of Viking andArab raids that made the roads safer for trade. These four factors helped create more political stability,which encouraged merchants to take to the roads once again. In the middle of the old Roman trade routeslinking Italy and Flanders was the French county of Champagne, whose counts were shrewd enough totake advantage of this trade by sponsoring six annual trade fairs held in four rotating locations. Rather thanrobbing these merchants, the counts charged them for the use of booths, local justice, lodging, food, andprotection. Among those attending these fairs and providing the counts with revenues were wealthymerchants from Italy and Flanders.The excitement these fairs generated was infectious. So were the profits. Some jealous nobles attackedand robbed merchants traveling to the fairs. Others, being more farsighted, worked to ensure safer travelso they could start their own fairs and make their own profits. With each new fair came greater incentiveto stifle troublesome local nobles and increase political order. This, in turn, stimulated more trade fairs,more profits, more law and order, and so on.Eventually, fairs and trade became so common that merchants started settling down in permanenttowns. Generally, such settlements were on welltraveled routes that could attract the trade of passingmerchants. They also were under the protective walls of a lord's castle, an abbot's monastery, or a bishop'ssettlement. Many towns were brand new settlements, but others were outgrowths of already establishedcommunities. Even today, many European towns have a castle in or near them, evidence of their medievalbeginning.B. The impact of townsMore stable conditions had helped produce the rise of towns. The towns, in turn, helped create even morepeaceful conditions with far reaching effects. For one thing, towns generated taxes in the form of money,a new more fluid kind of wealth vastly superior to land as the primary form of wealth. Previously, almostany noble with a castle and a stockpile of food could defy his lord by going under siege, since feudal armieswere notoriously unstable and prone to breaking up after their terms of service (usually forty days) wereup. However, the more powerful lords that could attract settlers for towns now had money from taxes. Withthat money, they could buy mercenaries, usually landless knights, who would fight as long as the lord couldpay them. Such armies were more stable and allowed their owners to crush the power of their rebelliousvassals and establish more law and order. The increased order would encourage more towns which wouldgenerate more taxes for the king and upper nobles, who could impose even more law and order, and soon. This would also feed back into the ongoing cycle encouraging trade fairs. All this led to two things: arising class of townsmen and a money based economy, both of which would help lead to the rise of kings.Money created another problem especially hurting the nobles and Church: inflation. At first, when townswere just getting started and there was little money in circulation, the fixed rent set by the original towncharter seemed like a good deal. However, as more money came into circulation, prices rose, and thebuying power of the fixed rents declined. This especially hurt the nobles and the Church. The nobles oftentook the short term expedient of selling freedom to their towns and serfs for one lump sum. This gave themsome immediate cash, but wrecked much of their power, leading to the decline and eventual end of thefeudal order.The Church, with its wealth mostly in land and fixed rents, also suffered. It did have other options for raisingmoney, namely selling church offices and indulgences (reprieves from punishment in Purgatory beforebeing admitted into Heaven). Such practices were subject to abuse and led to popular discontent that cutinto the Church's power and prestige. Eventually, that would lead to the Protestant Reformation, whichwould destroy the Catholic Church's religious dominance in Western Europe.As far as townsmen were concerned, nobles and churchmen first saw them as an asset providing themwith taxes and militia. However, as the class of townsmen grew, so did tensions with their overlords. Forone thing, townsmen (or burghers, from burg, the German word meaning town) felt increasingly stifledunder a lord's rule. The two classes had very different values, the burghers being concerned with tradeand commerce and their overlords being concerned with power and fighting. Therefore, one by one, townsstarted trying to gain their freedom. Some towns bought it with one big payment to the lord or fought for it,sometimes in long protracted struggles. For example, the town of Tours in France fought twelve warsbefore it finally won its independence.Another tactic was to appeal to the king for support, since kings and townsmen saw each other as valuableallies against the nobles and Church in between. Eventually, the towns managed to break free andform communes (urban republics) like their counterparts in Italy. Oftentimes confirming the town’sindependent status would be a charter that would detail the specific duties and liberties the town and lordowed each other. Also, as serfs and towns bought their freedom, they came more closely under the king'sauthority, supplying him with taxes and loans.Two other factors unique to the king gave him an edge over other nobles. One was his religious positionas God's appointed ruler, which was symbolized by a churchman anointing him with oil in the same manneras Biblical rulers. The second factor was his position as the supreme judge of the land. When the kingswere weak in the Early Middle Ages, this did them little good. However, as they rose to power, they couldexercise their judicial powers more effectively, which in turn would give them more political power and soon.All these factors, the rise of a money economy, the growing class of townsmen, and the kings' judicial andreligious status gradually led to the decline of the medieval Church and nobles and the corresponding riseof kings with money that could buy them two things. One was stable full time mercenary armies that wouldfight for as long as they were paid. The other was a bureaucracy drawn increasingly from the middle class.These new royal bureaucrats had several advantages over feudal vassals. For one thing, they were moreloyal, being the king's natural allies against the nobles. Also, they were more efficient since they weregenerally literate and could keep records. Finally, they were easier to control because they were totallydependent on the king for their status. Also, they were paid with money, so the king could just cut their payif they got out of line. This contrasted greatly with the land based economy of the Early Middle Ages whenthe king had to physically drive rebellious vassals from their lands. Although the rise of kings and nationalmonarchies would be a centuries long process, it was the rise of towns starting in the twelfth century thatset that process in motion and laid the foundations of the modern world.Leagues & Guilds in Western EuropeThe years when towns and trade were first reviving in Western Europe were precarious ones for theemerging middle class of merchants and artisans. Costly tolls levied by local nobles hampered trade whentimes were peaceful, while more turbulent times could see each of those nobles cutting off trade andmarauding merchants on the road. Different weights, measures, and standards of coinage complicatedtransactions between merchants of neighboring towns. Famine could drive prices up dramatically, thuscutting down the flow of trade and causing turmoil among the workers who wanted higher wages to keepup with rising prices. Given such a dangerous world for the medieval merchants and artisans, it shouldcome as no surprise that they formed associations, leagues, and guilds, to protect and promotetrade. These were not examples of free enterprise, however. Their purpose was to exclude outsidecompetition from their markets since the evolving market economy was seen as too fragile to sustain muchcompetition.A. LeaguesIn northern Europe, various towns would band together in leagues to establish collective security. The mostimportant of these leagues was the Hanseatic League*, which was centered on the city of Lubeck in thesouthwest corner of the Baltic Sea. At the height of its power (c.1350 C.E.) the League contained overseventy German cities throughout the Baltic and North Seas. It kept an effective monopoly on the trade inthis area by keeping out Russian, Scandinavian, and English competition. When pirates, local lords, oreven kings threatened their trade or freedom, the League's forces could successfully defend theirinterests. The king of Denmark found this out to his dismay in 1370 when he tried to encroach on theLeague's territory and was driven back. The Hanseatic League dominated the trade of the Baltic and NorthSeas in the north much as the Italian cities dominated the Mediterranean trade in the south.Besides common military action, the Hanseatic League carried out other measures to protect and promotetrade. For one thing, it established common weights, measures, and coinage throughout its membercities. This cut down on the timeconsuming hassles of having to convert from one weight andmeasurement system to another each time a new business transaction took place. Today we are in thefinal stages of this standardization process, as the metric system is being pushed for worldwide use.The Hanseatic League's success was also based on more advanced business techniques, in particular,the use of credit. With a cash economy, a merchant could only buy as many goods as he had the cash onhand to pay with, which severely limited the scope of his activities. With credit that merchant could borrowmore money than he actually had and use it to buy goods that he could sell for a larger profit than with acash economy. This was because he was borrowing, buying, and reselling on a much larger scale (evenafter repaying the loan) than he ever could if he were dealing strictly with cash. As the merchant’s creditrating improved, he could borrow everlarger sums of money, oftentimes in several places at a time throughthe use of his agents, which vastly expanded the scope of his activities, his profits, and his creditrating. Buying in larger volume also allowed him to sell each unit of goods more cheaply and thus undersellother merchants not dealing in credit. In such a way, the Hanseatic League established a virtual monopolyon trade in the Baltic and North Seas.The political expansion of the German people also helped the German cities of the Hanseatic League. Atthis time, German peasants and the crusading order of the Teutonic Knights were expanding into the interiorof Eastern Europe against the Slavic peoples there. Meanwhile, the German cities founded colonies intheir wake, thus increasing their economic power over the Baltic Sea and further restricting competitionthere.Although the Hanseatic League was the most important of the medieval town leagues, it was by no meansthe only one. There were several leagues of towns along the Rhine whose main concerns were to stop theraids of local nobles on trade and to curb the tolls those nobles imposed on goods passing through theirterritory. The most famous of these leagues, the Swabian League, had over eighty member cities at itsheight (late 1300's) and was strong enough to challenge the dukes of Austria and Bavaria. In Flanders,there was a league of twentytwo towns whose purpose was to buy raw wool from England. Another leagueof seventeen towns in Champagne County, France regulated marketing practices at trade fairs. Whatevertheir functions, the cumulative effect of leagues was to improve the trade and economy of WesternEurope. And that, in turn, contributed to the rise of kings and more stability.B. GuildsGuilds served much the same function on a local level as leagues did on a wider geographiclevel: protecting their members from the dangers of outside world, whether they were marauding noblesand bandits, economic ruin, or outside competition. Originally each town would have one guildencompassing all crafts. However, as the towns grew, the guilds evolved into various specialized guilds:merchant, goldsmith, armorer, tailor, bargemen, etc. By 1200 C.E., Venice had fiftyeight guilds, Genoathirtythree, Florence twentyone, Cologne twentysix, and Paris one hundred. The purpose of each guildwas to exclude outsiders from practicing that guild's craft or trade within the city walls. Although this virtuallyeliminated free enterprise, it did provide a stable atmosphere in which the newly evolving crafts and tradescould develop and survive.Guilds went much farther than excluding outside competition from within their walls. In fact, they controlledjust about every aspect of the town's economy, in particular wages, prices, quality of goods, and guildmembership. For example, an armorer would buy the materials he needed through the guild at a set price,not on his own for whatever price was cheapest. His workers worked for the number of hours and wagesset by the guild. His armor had to be of certain quality meeting the guild's specifications. He could notadvertise beyond setting one example of his work in his window. The guild also determined the price hecould charge so he would not get an advantage over other members of the guild. Set prices also reflectedthe Church's displeasure with profits.Training for and admission into the guild were also strictly regulated. Apprenticeship was almost alwaysrestricted to sons or nephews of guild masters, something that caused anger among the commonlaborers. Typically, a master craftsman would send his son to another craftsman for apprenticeship at theage of ten to twelve years. The boy would live in the master's home, work in his shop, and learn the craftin an apprenticeship lasting from three to fifteen years. At the end of his training, the apprentice wouldusually get a gift of money from the master to help him start his own business. He then becamea journeyman who worked as a day laborer for different masters until he could save enough money to starthis own shop. When he was ready, the journeyman would be examined by the guild masters for histechnical ability, oftentimes having to produce a masterpiece to show his proficiency at the craft. If hepassed the exam, and there was room in the guild, he became a master who shared in the limited, but fairlystable market established by the guild for its members.The guild was more than a business association. It was also a social and political organization that lookedafter the welfare of its members. It provided justice by settling disputes between its members. It supervisedthe morals of its members in such matters as public fighting, drunkenness, and a dress code. It providedinsurance against fire, flood, theft, prison, and old age (for those few who survived that long). It paid formembers' funerals and for masses and prayers to free their souls from Purgatory. The guilds would alsobuild hospitals, almshouses, schools and orphanages for the many orphans in society back then.The guild was also a source of pride for its members. Each guild had its own guildhall where meetings andsocial functions were held. On the day celebrating its patron saint, a guild would put on parades andreligious plays. Guilds would also dedicate to the town cathedral stained glass windows depicting biblicalscenes that were also concerned with that guild's particular craft.Guilds, like leagues, caused Europe's economy and trade to improve, which made possible the rise of kingsand more stable conditions. However, those very kings who profited from guilds and leagues were largelythe cause of their decline in the 1400's. For one thing, the stable conditions protected by the kings madethe guilds’ protective restrictions unnecessary. In spite of this, the guild masters who ran the townsrestricted membership even more than before while maintaining strict price and quality controls on theirgoods. Earlier, such practices had been good since they had protected a fragile trade vulnerable to theharsh conditions of the time. By the late 1400's, those same practices that had once protected the guildsnow worked to destroy them. Restrictive membership and low wages, even in time of inflation, led to workerrevolts in many cities. Even more devastating was the competition from outside of town. Rich merchantsstarted cottage industries where they moved production outside the city walls (and the guilds'jurisdiction). Here they could pay individual peasants lower wages to produce wool and undersell the guildswhich were still locked into their controlled wage and price structure. As a result, guilds went into decline.The rise of strongly centralized states in the Later Middle Ages also hurt leagues, because the kings nowprotected trade and also saw the leagues as rivals for political power. At the same time, stability and tradefostered by the rise of kings sent explorers looking for new markets. The discovery of new trade routes toAmerica and around Africa shifted trade away from the Baltic and North Seas, thus hurting the Germanleagues.Rise of the medieval Papacy (c.9001300)A. Introduction: the plight of the Church in the Early Middle AgesFew stories better illustrate the problems of the medieval Catholic Church than the story of PopeFormosus. When this pope died in 856, his troubles were far from over. A personal enemy became thenew pope and had Formosus' body dug up and put on trial. To no one's surprise, the late Formosus wasconvicted of illegally seizing the papal throne. His body was stripped of its priestly vestments, the fingerson his right hand (used for giving the benediction) were cut off, and his body was thrown into the TiberRiver. Not surprisingly, the rest of the Church, ranging from bishops, archbishops, and abbots down to thelowliest monks and parish priests, was also seething with corruption.The Church's wealth, some 2030% of the land in Western Europe, was a big part of the problem. Withlittle money in circulation at this time, land was the main source of wealth and power, making the Churchthe object of the political ambitions of nobles throughout Europe. Naturally, such nobles, who were warriorsby trade, usually ignored and even trampled over the religious interests of the Church.B. The zeal for reform (9101073)Even in such troubled times, the Church's ongoing cycle of corruption and reform meant there were alwaysmen of religious conviction determined to set the Church back on its spiritual path. As so often happened,reform started in the monasteries, in this case in the monastic house founded at Cluny, France in 910C.E. The monks of Cluny placed themselves directly under the pope's power and out of the reach of anylocal lords. That meant virtual independence from any outside authority, since the popes were too weak toexert any authority from so far away. Technically, they were Benedictines and there was no separate orderof Cluniac monks, but their agenda of reforms became so widely adopted that they have been referred toas Cluniacs ever since. Over the next 150 years, Cluniac reforms spread to hundreds of monasteriesacross Western Europe.The zeal for reform was also strong in Germany, especially among the upper clergy and the emperors. Theemperors saw church reform as a way to weaken the power of the nobles trying to control church lands andelections. By the same token, devout bishops and abbots looked to the German emperors for protectionsfrom ambitious nobles. As a result, both German emperors and German clergy supported the growingreform movement. Emperors put reformers into church offices throughout Germany. Such men weregenerally loyal to the emperor since they owed their positions to him and saw him as the main defender ofreform.The emperor, Henry III, even appointed four reform popes. One of them, Leo IX, carried out numerousreforms against simony (selling church offices), clerical marriage, violence, and overall moral laxity amongthe clergy. He even felt strong enough to tangle with the patriarch in Constantinople, thus causinga schism (break) within the Church in 1054 that was never healed. Since that time, the Roman Catholicand Greek Orthodox Churches have functioned as two separate Churches. Consequently, by the mideleventh century, the popes were taken seriously as a real moral force in Western Europe. However, astorm was about to break that would destroy relations between Church and Empire.C. The Investiture Struggle (10731122)In 1056, the reform Church's main ally and guardian, Henry III, died leaving a child, Henry IV, as hissuccessor. This deprived the Church of any effective imperial protection until the young emperor came ofage. As a result, the popes had to seek new allies, and settled on the Normans in Southern Italy and thedukes of Tuscany in Northern Italy. Both of these were enemies of the German emperors, thus creating atense situation between the popes and Henry IV when he came of age. One reform adding to the tensionwas the creation of the College of Cardinals whose job it was to meet in private to elect a newpope. Designed largely to keep the turbulent Roman mob out of papal elections, it also kept the Germanemperors out of direct participation, although they still could veto any choice the College of Cardinals made.Another problem was the pope, Gregory VII, an ardent and stubborn reformer who agitated to replaceimperial with papal control of Church elections. Growing suspicion and tension between pope and emperorfinally erupted in the Investiture Struggle over who controls Church elections and invests (bestows) thebishops and abbots with the symbols of their power.The stakes in this fight were high on both sides. Henry needed control of the bishops and abbots to maintaineffective control of his empire. Pope Gregory felt the Church had to free itself from outside secular controlif it were to fulfill its spiritual mission. There was also the larger question of who was the real head of theChristian world: the Universal Empire or the Universal Church. Although the Byzantine emperor in the eastusually held sway over the patriarch in Constantinople, this question of supremacy, extending back throughCharlemagne to the later Roman Empire, had never been resolved in Western Europe.The Investiture struggle was a bitterly fought conflict on both sides. Pope and emperor stirred each other’ssubordinates into revolt. The reform bishops, appointed up to this time by the emperor, generally supportedhim against the pope. Meanwhile, the pope stirred the German nobles into rebellion against Henry. WhenHenry and his bishops declared Gregory a false pope, Gregory excommunicated Henry. Excommunicationcould be a decisive weapon since it released a ruler's vassals from loyalty to him until he did penance toget accepted back into the Church. As a result, Henry did such penance by standing barefoot in the snowoutside the pope's palace at Canossa.However, the struggle was hardly over. Gregory was driven from Rome and died in exile in the Normankingdom to the south, while Henry's reign ended with Germany torn by civil war and revolts. Finally, acompromise was reached where only clergy elected new bishops and abbots, but in the presence of animperial representative who invested the new bishop or abbot with the symbols of his secular (worldly)power. Although the struggle between popes and emperors continued for centuries, the popes had won amajor victory, signifying the Church's rising power and a corresponding period of decline for Germany.D. The Papal monarchy at its height (1122c.1300)The papal victory in the Investiture Struggle and the higher status it brought the popes led to many morepeople turning to the Church to solve their problems, in particular, legal ones. Canon (church) law andcourts were generally seen as being more fair, lenient and efficient than their secular counterparts.However, the more the Church's prestige grew, the more its courts were used, and the more its bureaucracygrew. As a result, the popes found themselves increasingly tied down with legal and bureaucratic matters,leaving less time for spiritual affairs. The popes of the 1200's generally had more background in (church)law than theology. By and large, they were good popes, but also ones with an exalted view of the Church'sposition. The most powerful of these popes, Innocent III (11991215), even claimed that the clergy werethe only true full members of the Church.Unfortunately, growing power and wealth again diverted the Church from its spiritual mission, and led togrowing corruption. Two other factors aggravated this problem. One was the rising power of kings, whichtriggered bitter struggles with the popes over power and jurisdiction. Popes often used questionable meansin these fights, such as overuse of excommunication, declaring crusades against Christian enemies, andextracting forced loans from bankers by threatening to declare all debts to the bankers erased if the loanswere not granted. A second problem was inflation, which arose from the rise of towns and a moneyeconomy. The Church, with its wealth based in land, constantly needed money and therefore engaged inseveral corrupt practices: simony, selling indulgences (to buy time out of Purgatory for one's sins), fees forany and all kinds of Church services, and multiple offices for the same men (who were always absent fromat least one office).All these factors combined to ruin the Church's reputation among the faithful and undermine its power andauthority. Eventually, they would lead to the Protestant Reformation, shatter Christian unity in WesternEurope for good, and help pave the way for the emergence of the modern world.Basic Argument for an Intellectual RevolutionBlunders of Enlightenment | Scientific Method | Rationality | Social Inquiry | ConclusionHere is an outline of the argument for the urgent need to bring about a revolution in the aims and methods of academic inquiry, its whole character and structure, so that it takes up its proper task of promoting wisdom rather than just acquiring knowledge.Academia as it exists today is the product of two past great intellectual revolutions.The first is the scientific revolution of the 16th and 17th centuries, associated with Galileo, Kepler, Descartes, Boyle, Newton and many others, which in effect created modern science. A method was discovered for the progressive acquisition of knowledge, the famous empirical method of science.The second revolution is that of the Enlightenment, especially the French Enlightenment, in the 18th century. Voltaire, Diderot, Condorcet and the other philosophes had the profoundly important idea that it might be possible to learn from scientific progress how to achieve social progress towards an enlightened world.They did not just have the idea: they did everything they could to put the idea into practice in their lives. They fought dictatorial power, superstition, and injustice with weapons no more lethal than those of argument and wit. They gave their support to the virtues of tolerance, openness to doubt, readiness to learn from criticism and from experience. Courageously and energetically they laboured to promote reason and enlightenment in personal and social life.Blunders of the EnlightenmentUnfortunately, in developing the Enlightenment idea intellectually, the philosophes blundered. They botched the job. They thought the proper way to implement the Enlightenment Programme of learning from scientific progress how to achieve social progress towards an enlightened world is to develop the social sciences alongside the natural sciences.If it is important to acquire knowledge of natural phenomena to better the lot of mankind, as Francis Bacon had insisted, then (so, they thought) it must be even more important to acquire knowledge of social phenomena.First, knowledge must be acquired; then it can be applied to help solve social problems. They thus set about creating and developing the social sciences: economics, psychology, anthropology, history, sociology, political science.This traditional version of the Enlightenment Programme, despite being damagingly defective, was immensely influential. It was developed throughout the 19th century, by men such as SaintSimon, Comte, Marx, Mill and many others, and was built into the intellectualinstitutional structure of academic inquiry in the first part of the 20th century with the creation of departments of the social sciences in universities all over the world.Thus academic inquiry today, devoted primarily to the pursuit of knowledge and technological knowhow, is the outcome of two revolutions: the scientific revolution, and the later profoundly important but very seriously defective Enlightenment revolution. It is this situation which calls for the urgent need to bring about a third revolution to put right the structural defects we have inherited from the Enlightenment.But what is wrong with the traditional Enlightenment Programme? Almost everything. In order to implement properly the basic Enlightenment idea of learning from scientific progress how to achieve social progress towards a civilized world, it is essential to get the following three things right.The progressachieving methods of science need to be correctly identified.These methods need to be correctly generalized so that they become fruitfully applicable to any worthwhile, problematic human endeavour, whatever the aims may be, and not just applicable to the one endeavour of acquiring knowledge.The correctly generalized progressachieving methods then need to be exploited correctly in the great human endeavour of trying to make social progress towards an enlightened, wise world.Unfortunately, the philosophers of the Enlightenment got all three points wrong. And as a result these blunders, undetected and uncorrected, are built into the intellectualinstitutional structure of academia as it exists today.Scientific MethodFirst, the philosophes failed to capture correctly the progressachieving methods of natural science. From D'Alembert in the 18th century to Popper in the 20th, the widely held view, amongst both scientists and philosophers, has been (and continues to be) that science proceeds by assessing theories impartially in the light of evidence, no permanent assumption being accepted by science about the universe independently of evidence.But this standard empiricist view is untenable. If taken literally, it would instantly bring science to a standstill. For, given any accepted scientific theory, T, Newtonian theory say, or quantum theory, endlessly many rivals can be concocted which agree with T about observed phenomena but disagree arbitrarily about some unobserved phenomena. Science would be drowned in an ocean of such empirically successful rival theories.In practice, these rivals are excluded because they are disastrously disunified. Two considerations govern acceptance of theories in science: empirical success and unity. But in persistently accepting unified theories, to the extent of rejecting disunified rivals that are just as, or even more, empirically successful, science makes a big persistent assumption about the universe. The universe is such that all disunified theories are false. It has some kind of unified dynamic structure. It is physically comprehensible in the sense that explanations for phenomena exist to be discovered.But this untestable (and thus metaphysical) assumption that the universe is comprehensible is profoundly problematic. Science is obliged to assume, but does not know, that the universe is comprehensible. Much less does it know that the universe is comprehensible in this or that way.A glance at the history of physics reveals that ideas have changed dramatically over time. In the 17th century there was the idea that the universe consists of corpuscles, minute billiard balls, which interact only by contact. This gave way to the idea that the universe consists of pointparticles surrounded by rigid, spherically symmetrical fields of force, which in turn gave way to the idea that there is one unified selfinteracting field, varying smoothly throughout space and time. Nowadays we have the idea that everything is made up of minute quantum strings embedded in ten or eleven dimensions of spacetime.Some kind of assumption along these lines must be made but, given the historical record, and given that any such assumption concerns the ultimate nature of the universe, that of which we are most ignorant, it is only reasonable to conclude that it is almost bound to be false.The way to overcome this fundamental dilemma inherent in the scientific enterprise is to construe science as making a hierarchy of metaphysical assumptions concerning the comprehensibility and knowability of the universe, these assumptions asserting less and less as one goes up the hierarchy, and thus becoming more and more likely to be true.In this way a framework of relatively insubstantial, unproblematic, fixed assumptions and associated methods is created within which much more substantial and problematic assumptions and associated methods can be changed, and indeed improved, as scientific knowledge improves.Put another way, a framework of relatively unspecific, unproblematic, fixed aims and methods is created within which much more specific and problematic aims and methods evolve as scientific knowledge evolves. (A basic aim of science is to discover in what precise way the universe is comprehensible, this aim evolving as assumptions about comprehensibility evolve.)There is positive feedback between improving knowledge, and improving aimsandmethods, improving knowledgeabouthowtoimproveknowledge. This is the nub of scientific rationality, the methodological key to the unprecedented success of science. Science adapts its nature to what it discovers about the nature of the universe: see (4), (5) and (7) below.So much for the first blunder of the Enlightenment.RationalitySecond, having failed to identify the methods of science correctly, the philosophes naturally failed to generalize these methods properly. They failed to appreciate that the idea of representing the problematic aims (and associated methods) of science in the form of a hierarchy can be generalized and applied fruitfully to other worthwhile enterprises besides science.Many other enterprises have problematic aims; these would benefit from employing a hierarchical methodology, generalized from that of science, thus making it possible to improve aims and methods as the enterprise proceeds.There is the hope that, in this way, some of the astonishing success of science might be exported into other worthwhile human endeavours, with aims quite different from those of science.Social InquiryThird, and most disastrously of all, the philosophes failed completely to try to apply such generalized progressachieving methods to the immense, and profoundly problematic enterprise of making social progress towards an enlightened, wise world.The aim of such an enterprise is notoriously problematic. For all sorts of reasons, what constitutes a good world, an enlightened, wise or civilized world, attainable and genuinely desirable, must be inherently and permanently problematic.Here, above all, it is essential to employ the generalized version of the hierarchical, progressachieving methods of science, designed specifically to facilitate progress when basic aims are problematic.Properly implemented, in short, the Enlightenment idea of learning from scientific progress how to achieve social progress towards an enlightened world would involve developing social inquiry as social methodology, or social philosophy, not primarily as social science.A basic task would be to get into personal and social life, and into other institutions besides that of science  into government, industry, agriculture, commerce, the media, law, education, international relations  hierarchical, progressachieving methods (designed to improve problematic aims) arrived at by generalizing the methods of science.A basic task for academic inquiry as a whole would be to help humanity learn how to resolve its conflicts and problems of living in more just, cooperatively rational ways than at present. This task would be intellectually more fundamental than the scientific task of acquiring knowledge. Social inquiry would be intellectually more fundamental than physics.Academia would be a kind of people's civil service, doing openly for the public what actual civil services are supposed to do in secret for governments. Academia would have just sufficient power (but no more) to retain its independence from government, industry, the press, public opinion, and other centres of power and influence in the social world.It would seek to learn from, educate, and argue with the great social world beyond, but would not dictate.Academic thought would be pursued as a specialized, subordinate part of what is really important and fundamental: the thinking that goes on, individually, socially and institutionally, in the social world, guiding individual, social and institutional actions and life.The fundamental intellectual and humanitarian aim of inquiry would be to help humanity acquire wisdom  wisdom being the capacity to realize (apprehend and create) what is of value in life, for oneself and others, wisdom thus including knowledge and technological knowhow but much else besides.One outcome of getting into social and institutional life the kind of aimevolving, hierarchical methodology indicated above, generalized from science, is that it becomes possible for us to develop and assess rival philosophies of life as a part of social life, somewhat as theories are developed and assessed within science.Such a hierarchical methodology "provides a framework within which diverse philosophies of value  diverse religions, political and moral views  may be cooperatively assessed and tested against the experience of personal and social life."There is the possibility of cooperatively and progressively improving such philosophies of life (views about what is of value in life and how it is to be achieved) much as theories are cooperatively and progressively improved in science. In science diverse universal theories are critically assessed with respect to each other, and with respect to experience (observational and experimental results)."In a somewhat analogous way, diverse philosophies of life may be critically assessed with respect to each other, and with respect to experience  what we do, achieve, fail to achieve, enjoy and suffer  the aim being so to improve philosophies of life (and more specific philosophies of more specific enterprises within life such as government, education or art) that they offer greater help with the realization of value in life" (see my From Knowledge to Wisdom, p. 254).ConclusionAll in all, if the Enlightenment revolution had been carried through properly, the three steps indicated above being correctly implemented, the outcome would have been a kind of academic inquiry very different from what we have at present: see references (1), (3), (6), (8) and especially (2) and (9)..This difference, over time, would be bound to have a major impact. What we have at present, academic inquiry devoted primarily to acquiring knowledge and technological knowhow dissociated from any intellectually more fundamental concern to help us resolve our conflicts and problems of living in more cooperatively rational ways  dissociated, that is, from the pursuit of wisdom  is a recipe for disaster.Scientific knowledge and technological knowhow enormously increase our power to act. In endless ways, this vast increase in our power to act has been used for the public good  in health, agriculture, transport, communications, and countless other ways.But equally, this enhanced power to act can be used, and has been used, to cause human harm, whether unintentionally, as in environmental damage (at least initially), or intentionally, as in war.It is hardly too much to say that all our current global problems have come about because of the successful scientific pursuit of knowledge and technological knowhow dissociated from wisdom.The appalling destructiveness of modern warfare and terrorism, vast inequalities in wealth and standards of living between first and third worlds, rapid population growth, environmental damage  destruction of tropical rain forests, rapid extinction of species, global warming, pollution of sea, earth and air, depletion of finite natural resources  all exist today because of the massively enhanced power to act (of some), made possible by modern science and technology.Nevertheless, science as such is not the problem, but rather science dissociated from the pursuit of wisdom, the result of our failure to put right the structural defects in academic inquiry, inherited from the blunders of the Enlightenment.Hence my conclusion: we urgently need to bring about a third intellectual revolution, one which corrects the blunders of the Enlightenment revolution, so that the basic aim of academia becomes to promote wisdom, and not just acquire knowledge.Every branch and aspect of academic inquiry needs to change if we are to have the kind of inquiry, both more rational and of greater human value, that we really need.I have devoted much of my working life to trying to get my fellow academics  my fellow human beings  to appreciate the fundamental importance of the above argument.The most detailed and complete statement of the entire argument is to be found in my book From Knowledge to Wisdom: see (2) below. A recent, reformulation of the argument, which includes subsequent developments, is to be found in Is Science Neurotic?: see (9) below. An earlier statement, in the form of a dialogue between a scientists and philosopher, is to be found in What's Wrong With Science?: see (1) below. Further developments of aspects of the argument can be found in my other two books, The Comprehensibility of the Universe (4), and The Human World in the Physical Universe: Consciousness, Free Will and Evolution (8). The best short statement of the argument is contained in the article "Can Humanity Learn to Become Civilized? The Crisis of Science without Civilization" (6), reproduced in (8), chapter 9. The other works mentioned below, (3), (5), (7) and (9), summarize different aspects of the argument. "Arguing for Wisdom in the University" begins with an inflammatory account of the argument, and then spells out how I discovered and developed it, influenced especially by Karl Popper. "Has Science Established that the Cosmos is Physically Comprehensible?" is my latest, and perhaps best, argument for my aimoriented empiricist conception of science, the key step towards wisdominquiry.If you feel some sympathy with the above line of thought (you don't have to agree with all the details!), do join Friends of Wisdom (see above). If you do, I will keep you up to date about any developments that may occur.Science, Technology & Nationbuilding (An Essay)Introduction“Matatag, maginhawa at panatag na buhay” — this is what Filipinos wish for (National Economic and Development Authority 2017). In order to improve or elevate one’s lifestyle, Filipinos put hardwork and dedication to their jobs and careers. However, the citizens are aware that government efforts are essential in attaining the ‘matatag, maginhawa at panatag na buhay.’In this article, the following are discussed: overview of the historical development of science and technology in the Philippines, the role of science and technology in the society, government policies geared towards S&T advancement, works and contributions of Filipinos to science and technology and science education in the Philippines.History Overview of Philippine Science and TechnologyBefore the hispanization of the country, early Filipinos have exhibited science and technology in their ways of life. This ‘informal’ scientific and technological knowledge that they exhibited and practiced were influenced by factors such as survival, culture and economic activities. Through their ways in agriculture, methods in livestock growing and food production, the scientific knowledge of the early inhabitants of the country is manifested. These methods and ways of work of the early Filipinos are now termed as ‘folk science’ or other times, ‘indigenous science’ (Serafica and others 2018).The country’s development in science and technology was not only shaped by the lives of early Filipinos. External factors like the colonization of the country by foreign countries, trades with foreign countries and international economic standards (Serafica and others 2018).During the Spanish era, the country learned new culture and practices brought by the Spaniards. One of the most remarkable contributions of the Spanish colonization was the establishment of a university where philosophy, theology and the humanities are studied — the University of Santo Tomas (then, College of Santo Tomas). It is a university run by Dominicans and was established by Fray Miguel de Benavides. Eventually, the university opened courses for jurisprudence, canonical law, medicine and pharmacy (TegonGeron and others 2018).The galleon trade has brought more science and technology in the country. These trades allowed foreign ideas, concepts, technology and Western culture and practices to enter the country and influence the people’s lives (Serafica and others 2018).The Americans, on the other hand, brought remarkable contributions to the development of science and technology in the country. One of which is the introduction of the secularized public school system. In 1901, Act №74 of the Philippine Commission created the Department of Public Instruction. This act included provisions that established schools that provide free primary education for Filipinos. The commission also established the Philippine Normal School in Manila (now, Philippine Normal University) to train Filipino teachers (TegonGeron and others 2018). Americans primarily aimed to develop human resources in the Philippines and brought great impact in the country.For the People: Government Policies in Science and TechnologyScience and technology (S&T) play an important role in sustaining a longterm growth of the country. In the Philippine Development Plan 2017–2022, the strategiesIn the Philippines, the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) is the agency concerned with advancing the country’s scientific and technological capacity. The department is mandated to “provide central direction, leadership and coordination of scientific and technological efforts and ensure that the results therefrom are geared and utilized in areas of maximum economic and social benefits for the people” (Executive Order 128 1987).The DOST is composed of the following: the sectoral planning councils, collegial and scientific bodies, S&T services and research and development (R&D) institutes. The department puts effort into attaining the following 11point agenda (DOST 2017): pursue R&D to address pressing national problems conduct R&D to enhance productivity and improve management of resources engage in R&D to generate and apply new knowledge and technologies across sectors strengthen and utilize regional R&D capabilities maximize utilization of R&D results through technology transfer and commercialization develop STI human resources and build a strong STI culture upgrade STI facilities and capacities to advance R&D activities and expand S&T services expand STI assistance to communities and the production sector, particularly the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) provide STIbased solutions for disaster risks and climate change adaptation and mitigation strengthen industryacademegovernment and international STI collaboration. enhance effectiveness of STI governanceThe Department of Science and Technology worked together with the National Research Council of the Philippines (NRCP) in order to determine strategies and policies that can help the country prepare itself in accomplishing the ASEAN 2015 goals. The resulting policies were clustered into four as follows: Social sciences, humanities, education, international policies and governance Physics, engineering and industrial research, earth and space sciences and mathematics Medical, chemical and pharmaceutical sciences Biological sciences, agriculture and forestryAside from these, the DOST have existing projects such as: (1) funds for researches, patents and projects related to science and technology; (2) scholarship grants for undergraduate and graduate studies of S&T students; (3) more campuses of the Philippine Science High School where young Filipino students are trained in S&T; (4) S&T parks to encourage academic and industrial partnerships; (5) Balik Scientist Program to encourage Filipino scientists to come home and work on researches and projects with fellow Filipino scientists; (6) establishment of the National Science Complex and the National Engineering Complex in order to develop S&T and engineering manpower resources in the country.Other programs that are supported by the government include those that were established and developed by the PhilippineAmerican Academy of Science and Engineering (PAASE), the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), and the Philippine Congress.These policies, projects and programs that were established, developed and supported by the concerned government agencies are shaped by several factors: (1) national goals, international treaty, legal frameworks and the country’s social needs, issues and problems (Serafica and others).Get to Know Them: Filipinos in Science(LeeChua 2000; 2008)Dr. Queena LeeChua, in her book 10 Outstanding Filipino Scientists published in 2000, identified the following Filipinos whose researches and works have made useful and significant contributions to science and technology in the country:Ramon Barba, tissue culture in Philippine mangoesJosefino Comiso, observing Antarctica using satellite imagesJose Cruz Jr., famous electrical engineer, offices of Institute of Electrical and Electronic EngineeringLourdes Cruz, research on seasnail venomFabian Dayrit, herbal medicine researchRafael Guerrero III, Tilapia culture researchEnrique Ostrea Jr., invention of meconium drugs testingLilian Patena, research on plant biotechnologyMarijo Ruiz, outstanding educator and graph theoristGregory Tangonan, communications technology researchIn 2006, the same author published a book called In Love with Science which featured young scientists and their contributions. Rhodora Aldemita, Victor Amoroso, Orville Bondoc, Paciente Cordero, Ma. Corazon de Ungria, Glorina Pocsidio and Glenn Gregorio are some of the outstanding young scientists in the field of Biology. In the study of chemistry, Ma. Alicia Aguinaldo, Christina Binag, Mary Ann Endoma, Erwin Enriquez, Ernesto Luis and Jose Oclarit are included in the outstanding young scientists. In other disciplines, the outstanding young scientists include Nathaniel Bantayan, Dindo Campilan, Ma. Regina Hechanova, Queena LeeChua, Patricio Palmes, Cecilia Reyes, Gabriel Romero and Leocadio Sebastian.It is very common to see and learn about contributions of famous scientists from foreign countries in our textbooks. However, as Filipinos, it is important that we are aware of the Filipino scientists who have made significant works and contributions to the development of science and technology in the country.Science Education in the PhilippinesUnder the Department of Science and Technology (DOST), the Science Education Institute (SEI) is the subagency which is mandated to undertake science education and training, administer scholarships, awards and grants, undertake S&T manpower development and formulate plans and establish programs and projects for the promotion and development of S&T education and training in coordination with DepEd, CHED and other institutions of learning (Executive Order 128).Some of their ongoing programs and projects include undergraduate and graduate scholarship grants and research grants. In the high school level, the establishment of the Philippine Science High School System (PSHSS) is a major leap into developing and honing young gifted students in the Philippines. This institution has the endview of preparing the young students for careers in science.In the elementary level, the Department of Education implemented the Special Science Elementary Schools (SSES). The project is inclined to offering children a learning environment that fosters their scientific interests.Besides these, there are other institutions of the government that contributes to the growth of S&T through education such as the Quezon City Regional Science High School (QCRHS), the Manila Science High School (MSHS) and the Central Visayan Institute Foundation.In the general perspective of education in the Philippines, the latest action of the government is the implementation of the K to 12 Education Program. This curriculum uses a spiral progression approach in learning the sciences across levels.Afterword: S&T Towards NationBuildingNationbuilding is a process with an end goal of establishing common interests, goals and preferences among citizens of a country towards the formation of that country where the people have no intentions of separating themselves from one another (Alesina and Reich 2015).We can reach commonality in our interests, aims and predilections as citizens if we attain freedom from destitution and injustice in all forms. Science and technology in the country should be enhanced because in a technologically driven century, our society has germinated new and atypical issues and conflicts that demands for resolutions that are equally new and unconventional. Through science and technology, we can obtain deeper understanding of societal problems and become good decisionmakers who will find solutions and implement them. Only then, Filipinos may be able to realize the “matatag, maginhawa at panatag na buhay.”Science, Technology and SocietyHandout title: Science, Technology and Nation BuildingThe history of science and technology in the Philippines started way back before the country gainedits independence from the American colonizers.Before the coming of the Spanish colonizers, the early inhabitants had their own culture &traditions. They had their own belief system and indigenous knowledge system that keeps themorganized and sustained their lives and communities for many years.In pre Spanish Philippines, is embedded in of the people.SCIENCE the way of life Scientificknowledge is observed: in the way they plant their crops taking care ofthat provide them food; intheir animals to help them in their daily tasks, and for food production.Science is observed in the way they interpret the movement of the heavenly bodies in predictingseasons and climates, and in organizing days into months and years. They used science inpreparing the soil for agricultural purposes and discovered the medicinal uses of plants.Technology is used by people in building houses, irrigations and in developing tools that they canuse in their everyday life. They developed tools for planting, hunting, cooking and fishing; forfighting their enemies during war or tribal conflicts; and for transportation. They also usedtechnology in creating musical instruments.Also, trading with China, Indonesia, Japan and other nearby countries have influenced their livesby providing opportunities for cultural and technological exchange.All of these ancient practices in science and technology are considered now as INDIGENOUSSCIENCE OR FOLK SCIENCE.SPANISH ERAWhen the Spaniards colonized the country, they brought with them their own culture andpractices. They established schools for boys and girls and introduced the concept of subjects anddisciplines. It was the o in the country, known now asbeginning f formal science and technologyschool of science and technology.Learning of science in school focuses on understanding different concepts related to the humanbody, plants, animals and heavenly bodies. Technology focuses on using and developing housetools used in everyday life.Life during the Spanish Era slowly became modernized, adapting some Western technology andtheir ways of life. The Filipinos developed ways to replicate technology brought by the Spaniardsusing indigenous materials. Medicine and advanced science were introduced in formal collegesand universities established by the Catholic orders.The has brought additional technology and development in the Philippines.GALLEON TRADEAlthough it is only beneficial for the Spaniards, these trades allowed other ideas, crops, tools,cultural practices, technology, and Western practices to reach the country. Some of the Filipinostudents who were able to study in Europe also contributed to the advancement of medicine,engineering, arts, music, and literature in the country.The Philippines, being considered as inone of the centers of global trade Southeast Asia duringthat time, was considered to be one of the most developed places in the region.Although the country is blessed with these developments, the of the peoplesuperstitious beliefsand the during the halted the growth of science inCatholic doctrines and practices Spanish erathe country.AMERICAN ERAThe Americans have more influence in the development of science and technology in thePhilippines compared to the Spaniards. established the public education system improved the engineering works and health conditions of the people. established a modern research university, UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES. created more public hospitals. mineral resources were explored and exploited during the American times. transportation and communication systems were improved, though not accessiblethroughout the country.The Americans did everything to “Americanize” the Philippines. They reorganized the learning ofscience and introduced it in the public and private schools. In basic education, science educationfocuses on nature studies and science and sanitation, until it became a subject formally known as“Science.” The teaching of science in higher education has also greatly improved and modernized.Researches were done to contro malaria, cholera, and tuberculosis and other tropical diseases.lThe desire of the Americans to develop the human resources of the Philippines to serve their owninterests is somehow beneficial in the country. These allowed American scholars to introduce newknowledge and technology in the country. The Protestant church missions in different places inthe country also brought hospitals and schools to far flung areas. Little by little, these efforts builta stronger foundation for science and technology in the country.World War II has destabilized the development of the country in many ways. Institutions andpublic facilities were turned into ashes, houses were burned, and many lives were destroyed. Thecountry had a difficult time to rebuild itself from the ruins of the war. The human spirit to surviveand to rebuild the country may be strong but the capacity of the country to bring back what wasdestroyed was limited.The reparation funds focused on building some institutions and public facilities like schools,hospitals and transportation system. The reparation money from Japan was also concentrated onbuilding highways and providing technological training and human resource development.Since the establishment of the new republic, the whole nation has been focusing on using its limitedresources in improving S&T capability. It has explored the use of ODA or Overseas DevelopmentAllocations from the different countries to help the country improve its scientific productivity andtechnological capability.Human resource development is at the heart of this efforts focusing on producing more engineers,scientists, technology experts, doctors and other professionals in the country.The development of science and technology in the Philippines, based on its brief history, is shapedby several factors and influences. Like in the history of science in other countries, it is alwaysshaped by human and social activities, both internal and external. The following are the influencesin the development of science and technology:Internal influences: survival, culture, economic activitiesExternal influences: foreign colonizers, trades with foreign countries, international economicdemands.Science and technology may have significant impact on the lives of the people and in thedevelopment of the Philippine society. However, improving the quality of science education stillremains as a big challenge in the country.SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ANDNATIONBUILDINGSCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND SOCIETYBRIEF HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF SCIENCE ANDTECHNOLOGY IN THE PHILIPPINES The history of science and technology in thePhilippines started way back before the countrygained independence from the American colonizers. Before the coming of the Spanish colonizers, the earlyinhabitants of the archipelago had their own culture,traditions, belief system and indigenous knowledgesystem that keep them organized and sustained theirlives and communities for many years. Science, in preSpanish Philippines, scientificknowledge is observed in the way of planting theircrops to provide them food and taking care of theanimals to help their daily tasks and for foodproduction production. It is also used in observing observing andinterpreting the movement of heavenly bodies topredict seasons and climates. They used science inpreparing the soil for agricultural purposes. Technology is used by the people in buildinghouses, irrigations, and developing tools that theycan use in everyday life. They developed tools forplanting, hunting, cooking, and fishing; for fightingtheir enemies during war or tribal conflicts; andtransportation. The different archaeological artifacts discovered indifferent parts of the country also prove that theMetal Age also had significant influence on the livesof early Filipinos. The sophisticated designs of goldand silver jewelry, ceramics, and metal tools havehelped in the development of different tools. When the Spaniards colonized the country, theybrought with them their own culture and practices.SPANISH COLONIZATIONThey established schools and introduced theconcepts of subjects and disciplines. It was thebeginning of formal science and technology in thecountry, known now as school of science andtechnology. The galleon trade has brought additionaltechnology and development in the Philippines.Although it is only beneficial for the Spaniards, thesetrades allowed other ideas, crops, tools, culturalpractices practices, technology technology, and Western Western practices practices toreach the country.The Galleon Tradewas a governmentmonopoly. Onlytwo galleons wereused: One sailedfrom Acapulco toManila with some500,000 pesos worthof goods, spending120 days at sea; theother sailed fromManilato Acapulco withsome 250,000 pesosworth of goodsspending 90 days atsea. Although the country is blessed with thesedevelopments, the superstitious beliefs and theCatholic doctrines and practices during the Spanishera halted the growth of science in the country.THE AMERICANS’ COLONIZATION They have more influence in the development ofscience and technology than Spaniards. They established the public education system,improved the engineering i works and the healthconditions of the people. They reorganized the learning of science andintroduced it in public and private schools. Researches were done to control malaria, cholera,and tuberculosis and other tropical diseases. They allowed American scholars to introduce newknowledge and technology in the country. The Protestant church missions in different places inthe country also brought hospitals and schools tofarflung areas. Transportation and communication systems wereimproved, though not accessible throughout thecountry. Mineral resources of the country were explored andexploited.HOWEVER, World War II has destabilized the development ofthe country. Institutions and public facilities were burned andmany lives were destroyed. The human spirit to survive and to rebuild thecountry may be strong but the capacity of thecountry to bring back what was destroyed waslimited.THE DEVELOPMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN THEPHILIPPINES, BASED ON ITS BRIEF HISTORY, IS SHAPED BYSEVERAL FACTORS AND INFLUENCES.GOVERNMENT POLICIES ON SCIENCEAND TECHNOLOGY The Philippine government introduced andimplemented several programs, projects, andpolicies to boost the area of science andtechnology technology. The goal is to prepare prepare the wholecountry and its people to meet the demands of atechnologically driven world and capacitate thepeople to live in a world driven by science. The Department of Science and Technology (DOST)sought an expertise of the National ResearchCouncil of the Philippines (NCRP) to consult varioussectors in the society to study how the Philippinescan prepare prepare itself in meeting meeting the ASEAN Goals. The NCRP is expected to recommend policies andprograms that will improve the competitiveness ofthe Philippines in the ASEAN region.THE NCRP CLUSTERED THE POLICIESINTO FOUR, NAMELY:1. Social Sciences, humanities, education,international policies and governance Integrating ASEAN awareness in basic educationwithout adding to the curriculum Emphasizing teaching in the mother tongue Developing school infrastructure and providing forICT Local food security2. Physics, engineering and industrial research, earthand space sciences, mathematics. Emphasizing degrees, licenses, and employmentopportunities Outright grants for peer monitoring Review R.A. 9184 ( Government ProcurementReform Act) Harnessing science and technology as anindependent mover of development3. Medical, chemical, and pharmaceutical sciences Ensuring compliance of drugmanufacturing firmsASEANharmonized standards full implementation of theFDA Creating an education council dedicated tostandardization of pharmaceutical services and care Empowering food and drug agencies to conductevidencebased research as pool of information Allocating two percent of the GDP to research Legislating a law supporting human genome projects4. Biological sciences, agriculture, and forestry Protecting and conserving biodiversity by fullimplementation of existing laws Use of biosafety and standard model by ASEANcountries Promoting indigenous knowledge systems andindigenous people’s conservation Formulation of common food and safety standardsAREAS AND FIELDS TO EMBARKVARIOUS RESEARCH AND PROJECTS1. Use of alternative and safe energy2. Harnessing mineral resources3. Finding cure for various diseases and illnesses4. Climate change and global warming5. Increasing food production6. Preservation of natural resources7. Coping with natural disasters and calamities8. Infrastructure developmentFAMOUS FILIPINOS IN THE FIELD OFSCIENCEThe 10 identified outstanding Filipino scientists havecontributed and been famous abroad through itscontributions in different science disciplines,agriculture, mathematics, physics, medicines,marine science science, chemistry chemistry, engineering engineering, andbiology.1. Ramon Cabanos Barba – for his outstandingresearch on tissue culture in Philippine mangoes2. Josefino Cacas Comiso – for his works on observingthe characteristics of Antarctica by using satelliteimages3. Jose Bejar Cruz Jr. – known internationally in thefi lde of electrical l t i l engineering i ; was elected asofficer of the famous Institute of Electrical andElectronic Engineering4. Lourdes Jansuy Cruz – notable for her research onsea snail venom5. Fabian Millar Dayrit – for his research on herbalmedicine6. Rafael Dineros Guerrero III – for his research ontilapia7. Enrique Mapua Ostrea Jr. – for inventing themeconium drugs testing8. Lilian Formalejo Patena – for doing research onplant biotechnology9. MariJo Panganiban Ruiz – for being anoutstanding educator and graph theorist10. Gregory Ligot Tangonan – for his research in thefield of communications technologyOTHER OUTSTANDING FILIPINO SCIENTISTSWHO ARE RECOGNIZED HERE AND ABROAD Caesar A. Saloma – an internationally renownedphysicist Edgardo Gomez – famous scientist in marinescience William Padolina – chemistry and president ofNational Acaedemy of Science and Technology(NAST) Philippines Angel Alcala – marine scienceMAJOR CONTRIBUTIONS OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TOPHILIPPINE NATIONBUILDINGThe major contributions of science and technology to Philippine nationbuilding are linked to its socioeconomic progress and its industrialization. Today, the current state of our country is very low in its capacity to produce local goods for domestic needs as well as in international scientific research publications. One of the primary reasons for the slow growth of scienceand technology in the Philippines is because of the lack of funding and support from the government for the improvement of science educational fields, especially in the research and development.Moreover, the history of science and technology in the Philippines can betraced as early as the stone age. The discovery of tools to aid in human life is one of its first foundations. Next is in bronze age, people learned to use metals for tools and weapons, as well as, domestication and agriculture. Moving forward, all the discoveries and developments of tools lead to more knowledge and advancements in the field of science. More scientists rose to invent and apply science for the betterment of our society. Our community life changed from rural living to urbanized cities, especially in Manila where it becomes very crowded due to greater work opportunities and higher demandsof manpower. Though as time goes by, technical innovations have lessened the load of people and led to greater demand of studying newly applied technologies. On the other hand, medical science has contributed much to thecure and prevention of diseases including the application of vaccines and the promotion of cheaper medicines. Lastly, the field of communication welcomed a drastic change from the internet usage to the different supply of cellular phones in just a snap people from far distances can already see and commune with each other. Until now, more inventions are being researched and studied. However, no matter how many innovations have broken out in the Philippines, the country’s progress isn’t much highly competitive. Hopefully, as we welcome new seasons, there would be more support in studying and advancing sciences in our country.the precolonialperiodthe history of science technology in thephilippines started way back before theconflicting independencefrom the american colonizers before thecoming of the spaniards colonizersthe early inhabitants of the archipelagohad their own cultureand traditions they have their ownbelief systemsand indigenous knowledge systems thatkeepthem organized and sustain their livesand communitiesfor many years scientificand technological development in thephilippines began in the precolonialperiodeven before the spaniards came in thephilippinesthe early filipinos were alreadypossessed their own culture andtechnologythey are already using plants asmedicine and they were aware of themedicinal and therapeutic properties ofplantsand the methods of extracting medicinesfrom the herbswhich addressed the problems in healththey're known asalbulario in filipino herbalaria inspanishand herbalists in englishduring precolonial period system offarming and animal racing were alsoimplementedthey raised chicken pigs goats carabaosand small native poniesthey also use bow and arrow for fishingand huntingscientific knowledge is observed in theway they plant their cropsthat provide them food in taking care ofanimals to help them in their tasksthis also addressed the problems interms of mass production in food supplymoreover early filipinos had alsodeveloped different modes oftransportationearly philippines were said to beproficient in building ocean growingvessels which address the problems interms oftransportationone of the greatest contributions ofearly filipino to science and technologywas achieved by the native cortelierswhen they builtthe rice statuses by hand through thisthe early filipinos were able tocultivate crops on the mountain sitesin cold temperature they incorporated anirrigation system that uses water fromthe forestsand mountain tops to achieve farmingsystemthis addressed a problem in massproduction in terms offood supplies this showedthat early philippines can actuallyinnovate a farming systemin order to survive in relation tounfriendly environmenttoday the philippine is the 8th largestriceproducer in the world accounting for 2.8percentof global rice production alsophilippineswas also the world largest rice importerin 2010.now proceed to the colonial periodcolonization by the spaniards providedthe philippineswith modern means of construction suchasthe walls roads bridges and otherinfrastructuresthat can be seen mostly in theintramuros manilatayaba's questions such as the malagalong bridge and otherold catholic churches located in thedifferent areas in the philippinesthe spanish introduced a formaleducation through parish schoolthey brought with them their own cultureand practicesthey established schools for boys andgirlsand introduced the concept of subjectand disciplinesit was the beginning of formal scienceand technology in the country known asschool of science and technologyreligionreading writing arithmetic and musicwere taughtscientific institutions were establishedsanitationand advanced method of agriculture weretaught to the nationsthe spanish established colleges inuniversities in the archipelagothe study of medicine in the philippineswas given priorityand contributed to the field ofengineering in the islandhowever the spanish government developedexclusive health and educational systemsthat were only enjoyed by the upperclass or principal of masstrade is given more focus by the spannercolonial authoritiesdue to the prospect of big profitsagriculture industrial development onthe other handare neglected but science during theamerican occupationmodernized almost all aspect of life inthe philippinesthis period is toward agriculture foodprocessing medicineand pharmacy due to free trade policywith the united stateswhich nurtures the economy towardsagriculture and trademoreover the americans have moreinfluence in the development of scienceand technology in the philippinescompared to spaniards they established apublic educational systemimproved the engineering works andhealth conditions of the peoplethey established modern researchuniversitysuch as the university of thephilippines philippine normal school nowphilippine normal universitymanila business school now polytechnicuniversity of the philippinesmanila trade school now technologicaluniversity of the philippinesand created more public hospitals suchas philippine general hospital or pghlastly let's now move on to thepostcolonial periodafter achieving independence from thecolonizersthe philippines under differentadministrationcontinued to pursue programs in scienceand technologyits leadership had its own science andtechnology agendahowever it is important to note thatsome philippine presidentsposted more development in the fieldthan othersone of the presidents who ushered inadvancement in science and technologywas former president ferdinand marcosunder his term many agencies in scienceand technology were established andstrengthenedduring ferdinand marcos two terms ofpresidencyand during martial law he had enoughmany laws promoting science andtechnologythe advancement of science andtechnology had been the priorityin the national government it was inmarcos time when pioneeringhospitals were built such as thedeveloping heart centernoncenter of the philippines and thenational kidney and transplant institutemoreover on july 12 1980the country's president ferdinand emarcoscreated the light rail transit authorityorlrta as a government agencythe chairman was then the first lady andgovernor of metro manilaimelda romales marcos this lrta confinedits activities to determining policiesto the regulation and fixing affairsinto the planning of the extension tothe systemthe project was called metal rail andwas operated by a sister company of theformertraumatic company morocco called metroincorporatedhe also established the philippineatmospheric geophysicaland astronomical services administrationor pakasa under the department ofnational defenseto provide environmental protection andto utilizescientific knowledge to ensure thesafetyof the people furthermore veryconstitutednational academy of science andtechnology wasimproved to department of science andtechnologymarcos saw the key to the nationbuilding is the continued developmentof science and technology the progressin science and technologycontinued even after his presidencywhich left a legacyin this particular fieldSection 4:SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ANDNATIONBUILDINGLESSON OBJECTIVESAt the end of this lesson, the students should beable to: Discuss the role of science and technology inPhilippine nationbuilding; Evaluate government policies pertaining toscience and technology in terms of theircontributions to nation building; and Identify actual science and technology policiesof the government and appraise their impact onthe development of the Filipino nation.Brief Historical Background of Science and Technologyin the Philippines PreSpanish Philippines: The early inhabitants of the archipelago had their ownbelief system and indigenous knowledge system. Science was observed in the way they interpreted themovements of heavenly bodies to predict seasons andclimates, and in organizing days into months and years. Scientific knowledge was observed in the way theyplanted their crops, in taking care of animals, and forfood production. They used science in preparing the soil for agriculturalpurposes and like any other ancient cultures. They alsodiscovered the medicinal uses of plants. They developed tools for planting, hunting,cooking, and fishing; for fighting their enemiesduring war or tribal conflicts. They also developed technologies in creatingmusical instruments. The Metal Age had a significant influence on thelives of early Filipinos. Sophisticated designs of gold and silver jewelry,ceramics, and metal tools proved that theirtechnological ideas helped in the development ofdifferent tools. Spanish Era: The Spaniards brought with them their own culture andpractices. They established schools for boys and girls andintroduced the concept of subjects and disciplines. It was the beginning of formal science and technology inthe country, known now as school of science andtechnology. Schools were mandated to teach religion, mathematics,reading and writing, music, arts, health and sanitation.(Quinto et al.) Agriculture was the major livelihood and Filipinos weretrained to use innovative approaches in farming. Medicine and advanced science were introducedin formal colleges and universities established bythe Catholic orders. The galleon trade had brought additionaltechnology and development in the Philippines. Filipino students who were able to study in Europealso contributed to the advancement of medicine,engineering, arts, music, and literature in thecountry. American Era: The Americans established the public educationsystem, and improved the engineering works andthe health conditions of the people. They reorganized the learning of science andintroduced it in public and private schools. Ex.Bureau of Government Laboratory They established a modern research university,the University of the Philippines and Institute ofScience. They created more public hospitals. The mineral resources of the country were alsoexplored and exploited during the American time. Transportation and communication systems wereimproved, though not accessible throughout thecountry. The Protestant church missions in different places in thecountry also brought hospitals and schools to farflungareas. However, World War II had destabilized thedevelopment of the country in many ways. Institutionsand public facilities were turned into ashes, houseswere burned, and many lives were destroyed. Since the establishment of the new republic, the wholenation had been focusing on using its limited resourcesin improving its science and technological capability.Government Policies on Science andTechnologyThe Philippine government introduced andimplemented several programs, projects, andpolicies to boost the area of science andtechnology.The goal is to prepare the whole country and itspeople to meet the demands of atechnologically driven world and capacitate thepeople to live in a world driven by science.The National Research Council of the Philippines(NCRP) clustered these policies into four,namely:1. Social Sciences, Humanities, Education,International Policies and Governance2. Physics, Engineering and Industrial Research,Earth and Space Sciences, and Mathematics3. Medical, Chemical, and PharmaceuticalSciences4. Biological Sciences, Agriculture, and ForestryThere are also other existing programs supportedby the Philippine government through theDepartment of Science and Technology (DOST).Some of these projects are the following: Providing funds for basic research and patentsrelated to science and technology Providing scholarships for undergraduate andgraduate studies of students in the field ofscience and technology Establishing more branches of the PhilippineScience High School System Balik Scientist Program to encourage Filipinoscientists abroad to come home and work in thePhilippines Developing science and technology parks inacademic campuses to encourage academe andindustry partnerships The establishment of the National Science Complexand National Engineering Complex within theUniversity of the Philippines campus in Diliman.The PhilippineAmerican Academy of Science andEngineering (PAASE, 2008) identified several capacitybuilding programs such as: Establishment of national centers of excellence; Manpower and institutional development programs, suchas the Engineering and Science Education Program (ESEP)to produce more PhD graduates in science and engineering Establishment of regional centers to support specificindustries; Establishment of science and technology business centersto assist, advise, and incubate technopreneurship ventures;and Strengthen science education at an early stage through thePhilippine Science High School system.The current K to 12 education program includesScience, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics(STEM)The Commission on Higher Education has launchedits PhilippineCalifornia Advanced Research Institutes(PICARI) Project to strengthen the STEMcompetitiveness of the country.The Philippine Congress has also created variouslaws related to science and technology. These lawsvary according to different themes such as:conservation, healthrelated, technologybuilding,and supporting basic research, among others.Some laws and policies are in line with internationaltreaties such as: The United Nations (UN); United Nations Educational, Scientific andCultural Organization (UNESCO); and Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).Famous Filipinos in the Field of Science1. Ramon Cabanos Barba – for his outstanding researchon tissue culture in Philippine mangoes2. Josefino Cacas Comiso – for his works on observingthe characteristics of Antarctica by using satelliteimages3. Jose Bejar Cruz Jr. – known internationally in the fieldof electrical engineering; was elected as officer of thefamous Institute of Electrical and ElectronicEngineering4. Lourdes Jansuy Cruz – notable for her research onsea snail venom5. Fabian Millar Dayrit – for his research on herbalmedicine6. Rafael Dineros Guerrero III – for his research ontilapia culture7. Enrique Mapua Ostrea Jr. – for invention of themeconium drugs testing8. Lilian Formalejo Patena – for doing research on plantbiotechnology9. MariJo Panganiban Ruiz – for being an outstandingeducator and graph theorist10. Gregory Ligot Tangonan – for his research in the fieldof communications technologyThere are other outstanding Filipino scientists who arerecognized here and abroad for their outstandingcontributions in science: Caesar A. Saloma – an internationally renownedphysicist Edgardo Gomez – famous scientist in marinescience William Padolina – chemistry and president ofNational Academy of Science and Technology(NAST)–Philippines Angel Alcala – marine scienceDISCUSSION POINTS1. What are the significant contributionsof the Spaniards and Americans to thedevelopment of science and technologyin the Philippines?2. How does school science shape scienceand technology in the country?3. What can you say about theimplementation of some science andtechnology policies and projects in thecountry?PROCESSING QUESTIONS1. Identify several Filipino scientists.2. Research on their contributions in thefield of science3. Present the result of your work in class.ANSWER KEYS1. The Spaniards brought with them their own culture andpractices. They established schools for boys and girls andintroduced the concept of subjects and disciplines. Medicineand advanced science were introduced in formal colleges anduniversities established by the Catholic orders. The galleon tradebrought additional technology.The Americans established the public education system,improved the engineering works and the health conditions ofthe people. They reorganized the learning of science andintroduced it in public and private schools. They established amodern research university. They created more public hospitalsthan the former colonial master. Mineral resources of thecountry were explored and exploited. Transportation andcommunication systems were improved.2. During the Spanish time, learning of science inschool focused on understanding different conceptsrelated to the human body, plants, animals, andheavenly bodies. Technology focused on using anddeveloping house tools used in everyday life.The Americans reorganized the learning of science. Inbasic education, science education focused on naturestudies and science and sanitation. Higher educationhad also greatly improved and modernized. Researcheswere done to control malaria, cholera, tuberculosis,and other tropical diseases.3. Science and technology policies ensure that thewhole country and all people will experience theprogress that science can bring. Policies are guides todirect all efforts to a goal of developing a scientificallyadvanced country.1 & 2. Ramon Cabanos Barba – for his outstanding research on tissueculture in Philippine mangoes Josefino Cacas Comiso – for his works on observing thecharacteristics of Antarctica by using satellite images Jose Bejar Cruz Jr. – known internationally in the field ofelectrical engineering; was elected as officer of the famousInstitute of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Lourdes Jansuy Cruz – notable for her research on sea snailvenom Fabian Millar Dayrit – for his research on herbal medicine Rafael Dineros Guerrero III – for his research on tilapia culture Enrique Mapua Ostrea Jr. – for inventing the meconium drugstesting Lilian Formalejo Patena – for doing research on plantbiotechnology MariJo Panganiban Ruiz – for being an outstanding educatorand graph theorist Gregory Ligot Tangonan – for his research in the field ofcommunications technology Caesar A. Saloma – an internationally renowned physicistEdgardo Gomez – famous scientist in marine science William Padolina – chemistry and president of NationalAcademy of Science and Technology (NAST)–PhilippinesAngel Alcala – marine scienceLESSON SUMMARY Even before the time of Spanish colonization in thePhilippines, various people and communities already practicedscience. The growth of science and its development as a field in thecountry is a hybrid of indigenous and foreign ideas. Spain and the United States, being the former colonial mastersof the country, played an important role in building thefoundation of science in the Philippines. To further strengthen the science program in the Philippines,the government establishes various science programs,policies, and projects. Many Filipinos were able to establish themselves as scientistsand science educators in various scientific areas and fields.LESSON 3:SCIENCE EDUCATION IN THEPHILIPPINESLESSON OBJECTIVESAt the end of this lesson, the students shouldbe able to: Discuss the concept of science education;and Identify science schools established topromote science education in thePhilippines.The Concept of Science Education Science education focuses on teaching, learning, andunderstanding science. Teaching science involves exploring pedagogical theoriesand models in helping teachers teach scientific conceptsand processes effectively. Learning science includes both pedagogy and the mostinteresting aspect, which is helping students understandand love science. Understanding science implies developing and applyingscienceprocess skills and using science literacy inunderstanding the natural world and activities ineveryday life.Science Education in Basic and Tertiary Education In basic education, science education helps studentslearn important concepts and facts that are related toeveryday life including important skills such as processskills, critical thinking skills, and life skills. In tertiary education, science education deals withdeveloping students’ understanding and appreciationof science ideas and scientific works. It also focuses onthe preparation of science teachers, scientists,engineers, and other professionals in various sciencerelated fields.Science Schools in the Philippines Philippine Science High School System(PSHSS) A government program for gifted studentsin the Philippines A service institute of the Department ofScience and Technology (DOST) Offers free scholarship basis for secondarycourse with special emphasis on subjectspertaining to the sciences Special Science Elementary Schools (SSES)Project This project started in June 2007 with 57 (or 60 sinceits inception) identified elementary schools thatparticipated or were identified as scienceelementary schools in the country. The SSES Project aims to develop Filipino childrenequipped with scientific and technologicalknowledge, skills, and values. Its mission is to:o provide a learning environment to scienceinclinedchildren through a special curriculum that recognizes themultiple intelligences of the learners;o promote the development of lifelong learning skills; ando foster the holistic development of the learners. Quezon City Regional Science High School The school envisions to serve as a venue inproviding maximum opportunities forsciencegifted students to develop spirit ofinquiry and creativity. The focus of its curriculum is on science andtechnology. It is wellsupported by the local governmentunit and by the Parents and TeachersAssociation (PTA). Manila Science High School It is the first science high school in the Philippines. It aims to produce scientists with souls. The organization and curriculum of the school putsmore emphasis on science and mathematics. The school administers an entrance exam, theManila Science High School Admission Test (MSAT),for students who wish to enroll. MSAT has five parts: aptitude in science, aptitudetest in mathematics, problemsolving test inscience, problem solving test in mathematics, andproficiency in English. Central Visayan Institute Foundation It is the home and pioneer of the prominentschoolbased innovation known as the DynamicLearning Program (DLP). DLP is a synthesis of classical and modernpedagogical theories adapted to foster thehighest level of learning, creativity, andproductivity. The school takes pride in its Research Center forTheoretical Physics (RCTP).DISCUSSION POINTS1. What other government projects andprograms are available for scienceeducation in the Philippines?2. Are there private schools withoutstanding science educationprograms? Identify and compare theirscience education programs with publicscience schools.PROCESSING QUESTIONS1. Discuss sciencerelated issues andproblems in the country.2. Identify science and technologypolicies that could be adapted orimplemented in the Philippines.LESSON SUMMARY Science education deals with the teaching and learning ofscience and in helping the public develop science literacy. Science education deals with the development of peoplein science, which is the heart of science, technology, andsociety. To promote science education, science schools wereestablished to develop gifted students in science andmathematics. Science programs and projects were organized anddeveloped to nurture innovation in science in the country,and to encourage individuals to pursue careers andresearch in science and technology.LESSON 4:INDIGENOUS SCIENCE ANDTECHNOLOGY IN THEPHILIPPINESLESSON OBJECTIVESAt the end of this lesson, the studentsshould be able to: Discuss the concept of indigenousscience; and Discuss the contribution of indigenousscience in the development of scienceand technology in the Philippines.Indigenous Knowledge SystemSome examples of indigenous knowledge that aretaught and practiced by the indigenous people are: predicting weather conditions and seasons usingknowledge in observing animals’ behavior andcelestial bodies; using herbal medicine; preserving foods; classifying plants and animals into families andgroups based on cultural properties; preserving and selecting good seeds for planting; using indigenous technology in daily lives; building local irrigation systems; classifying different types of soil for planting basedon cultural properties; producing wines and juices from tropical fruits;and keeping the custom of growing plants andvegetables in the yard.Indigenous ScienceIndigenous science is part of the indigenous knowledgesystem practiced by different groups of people and earlycivilizations.It includes complex arrays of knowledge, expertise,practices, and representations that guide human societiesin their enumerable interactions with the natural milieu:agriculture, medicine, naming and explaining naturalphenomena, and strategies for coping with changingenvironments.Indigenous science helps the people in understanding thenatural environment and in coping with everyday life.1. Indigenous science uses science process skills suchas observing, comparing, classifying, measuring,problem solving, inferring, communicating, andpredicting.2. Indigenous science is guided by culture andcommunity values such as the following: The land is a source of life. It is a precious giftfrom the creator; The Earth is revered as “Mother Earth.” It is theorigin of their identity as people; All living and nonliving things are interconnectedand interdependent with each other; Human beings are stewards or trustee of the landand other natural resources. They have aresponsibility to preserve it; and Nature is a friend to human beings—it needsrespect and proper care.3. Indigenous science is composed of traditionalknowledge practiced and valued by people andcommunities such as ethnobiology, ethnomedicine, indigenous farming methods, and folkastronomy.DISCUSSION POINTS1. What is your understanding ofindigenous science?2. How do society and culture influencethe development of science andtechnology?PROCESSING QUESTIONS1. Identify Filipino indigenous knowledge.2. Research on the connection ofindigenous knowledge to science andtechnology.3. Present the result of your work to theclass.ANSWER KEY1. Indigenous science is part of theindigenous knowledge system practicedby different groups of people and earlycivilizations; It includes complex arraysof knowledge, expertise, practices, andrepresentations that guide humansocieties.2. Science is a part of culture, and howscience is done largely depends on thecultural practices of the people.1. Filipino indigenous knowledge: Predicting weather conditions and seasons using knowledge inobserving animals’ behavior and celestial bodies Using herbal medicine Preserving foods Classifying plants and animals into families and groups based oncultural properties Preserving and selecting good seeds for planting Using indigenous technology in daily lives Building local irrigation systems Classifying different types of soil for planting based on culturalproperties Producing wines and juices from tropical fruits Keeping the custom of growing plants and vegetables in the yardLESSON SUMMARY The communities in the Philippines have maintainedvast amounts of indigenous knowledge, culturalpractices, traditions, and beliefs. The indigenous knowledge system of the people servedas the foundation for the development of indigenousscience. In the Philippines, various people and communitiesalready practiced science. They invented tools and builtstructures, studied the medicinal uses of plants,observed heavenly bodies to predict seasons andweather, and used indigenous science in agriculture. science technologyin philippinenation building evaluate governmentpolicies pertainingto science and technology in terms oftheir contributionsto nation building and the last onewould beidentify after science and technologypolicies of the governmentand appraise their impact on thedevelopment of filipino nationokay so in the previous lesson we talkedabout the history ofscience and technology in other nationsnow we willfocus in our nation which is thephilippinesand how science and technologydevelop and influence filipino cultureum throughout the years by science andtechnologyokay so science and technology in thephilippinesfirst we will talk about the historybrief historical background of scienceand technology in the philippines sofirstum before the spanish cameknowing the philippines which we callthe prespanishphilippines okay so of courseum we are not that uma cleanno we have a system okay before thespaniards cameokay so the early inhabitants of thearchipelago had their ownbelief system and indigenous knowledgesystemokay and then science was observed inthe way theyinterpreted the movements of heavenlybodies to predict seasonsand climates and in oregon organizingdays into months and yearsthey just imagine conceptthis calendar is to to predict seasonsactually in the philippines we have onlytwo seasons no unlike in the temporaryjointsno we here we are in the trop we are uhincluded geographically the philippinesis included in the tropical regionwhich only have two seasons which is therainy season and the dry seasonno unlike the temperate region they havea winterautumn spring and then uh the rest notthatof the season unlike us the lawn seasonokay so scientific knowledge wasobserved in the waythey planted their crops in taking careof animals and forfood production okay soancestors that is prespanishin taking care of animals okay so youwhich areanimals can be domesticated and can belater eatenandokay so these crabs and these animalsare for food productionsso they use science in preparing thesoil for agricultural purposesand like any other ancient cultures okaysoof course meeting nanila classic soiland creating uhbecause there are many types of soilthere are soil nonefor agriculturalvery ideal for agricultural purposes andthey canproduce healthy crops no so andlike any other cultures okay so like uhas you can people like the mayaaztec no like china india actually theythey already practiced thisancestors civilizationso evenamong ancestorswhen it comes to agricultural purposesso they also discovered the medicinaluses of plants so as ii've said no young planted their cropsdon't like rice or cornuh like uh if they discovered somesome plants that have medicinal uses notactuallyoregano no actually the practices ofthat thedated way backokay so there are tribes also justrememberi know that you know that geographicallywe are separatedbecause of because we are composed ofmany islands that's the reason why weare called archipelago because uhwe are composed of many islands okay soin these islands there are many tribestribes byskin so by tribes each of the tribeshave their ownpractices and beliefs but then of coursethey have similarities alsookay so one of the similarities is thethe character you know the al the thecharacter that is usedfor writing that is what we call thealibataokay so this is uh this is theone of the common grounds when it comesto the tribes no okay so maybea one tribe have this is a writingalibabausing alibata and then the other tribeis using similar to this alsoit's very similar to each other becausegeographically it'suh umsouth america civilization so no wonderno wonder maybe maybe an aztecso it's the same noso they developed those for plantinghunting cooking and fishing not forfighting their enemiesduring war or tribal conflictsthat you know even though we areseparated by uhgeographically so the operating tribalconflictsso they also develop technologies increating musical instruments of coursemeredith or not for it so this is uhthat's the reason why they created themusical instrumentsso the mental age has a significantinfluenceon the lives of early philippines earlyfilipinos so nonew mental age class no casediscovered how to use and menbend metal of course like start talagathow to develop among swordslike the previous uhum hunting or fightingso when the metal age came in ourcountry the karunas so i know thatyou're familiar with the swordsof the early filipinosand then uh sophisticated designs ofgold and silver jewelry okaysowe have already uh we are alreadyum making we have already relationshipto otherum civilization on not before thespanish came to our country like japanawares is just imagine world okayand japanese and other uh civilizationsuh the indians alsoknowbecause of our relationship with othercivilizations and the keypad exchangesome goodsand methods metal tools prove that theirtechnological ideashelp in the development of differenttoolsokay so this is an example of acivilization that we have not before thespanish gamethis preprespanish age okay sowe um practice medicine and then there'sa healer not the tribal practices sothat istheir their spears no okayso this is an artworkdepicting what the practices of filipinoearly filipinosokay so now tapu satay is a prespanishera now we will talk about the spanishera okay so when we are colonized by thespanishor the spanish bro the spaniardsbrought with them their own culture andpractices of courseuh they are foreigners now when theycame here actually they started in uhuh the the the first is the the firstspaniards that came here are not reallycolonizersthey are missionaries noum this missionaries their missionis to convert no peopleor the military to colonize thephilippines becausethey saw a potential no they saw apotential in wealthyou know and uh in the also innot only not only not only so wellrussia or america is the spain and theportugalokay so uh thesetwo know these two kingdoms because theyare usuallyuh headed by a monarchical governmentthey are ruled by king and queensum they usually go no and then umusually they they go and uhumto conquer okay so the more the morelands they conqueredthe powerful they became okay sois uh spicesno noneisokay so one of their uhcontributions in the spanish isaside from they brought their ownculture and practicesthey also establish schools for boys andgirls andintroduce the concept of subjects anddisciplines okayum filipinaspracticingknow how to defend himself like that andothermanly chores okay so for the girls namantheyokay so there is no formal education noformal education meansso it was the beginning of formalscience and technology in the countryknown now as school of science andtechnology okay so the genotyping sideyou knowso the filipinos developed ways toreplicate the technology brought by thespaniardusing indigenous materialsinterestingthey they brought when they colonized usno so of course uh the thenew canada previously know how how ourancestors were uh how they dress no theythey dress likeuhokay so this is uh uh familiaespanola mestiza they they calledmestizait means they are halfblooded no so itmeans that they are half spanish andfilipino so when you have a spanish andfilipinoyou are called mestiza or mestizo whenit comes of coursemen okay okay somedicine and advanced science wereintroduced in formal colleges anduniversitiesestablished by the catholic ordersit's like a doctorate in philosophy ormasters in philosophy that's the reasonwhynot only now but way way back so that'sthe reason why uhformal colleges and universities areheaded by prieststhey themselves are ahadims okay eventhough uhum they are bound no by uhuh responsibility because of course theyare priests okay and then they havethe galleon trade that broughtadditional technology and development inthe philippines so the gallium trade isgreenthe guardian trade is purelywith other free trade free trade meansit's free you know the guardian trade isuhare controlled by the spanish or thespain okayso but then even though it's uh uhtotally controlled by spainso it's it adds from uhit adds technology and development inthe philippines soanother is filipino students who areable to study in europealso contributed to the advancement ofmedicineengineering arts musicmusic and literature in the country okayso the advancement of medicine of courseisof course that we know that he is adoctor okayso but then of course uh indeedmedicine engineering and arts and musicand literaturethat they can so pero uhsadly no for the filipino students onthat time that you are amajor you're a low income household andyou cannot do thatokay so nowspanish iran now we will go to theamerican iranokay so the americans establish thepublic education systemand improve the engineering works andhealth condition of the peopleokay so after 300years okay300 years now that is athat is three centuries not for everycentury there's 100 years300 years okay sospanisheducation public education meansfree education for all okaywhat about public education okaychildrenhis family is a really welltodo familyone of the welltodo family in hisum in his place okayso um but in the loungeof americans and then they gave the theidea the concept of public education afree education to all okaysookay so and not only public educationthey alsogive also a public health condition likepublichospitals okay so for the peopleand then another is they reorganize thelearning of science and introducing itin public andprivate schools okay sofrom the of course besides thetechnologyof courseokay so now they reorganize not nearlyorganizedlearning and science and then inintroducing public and private schoolsokay and then they also establish amodernresearch university in the university ofthe philippinesestablishing university of thephilippines one of the firstpublic schoolsor public collegeit was uh established in the americaneraokay so they created more publichospitals than the former colonialmasters okayso also the mineral resources of thecountry were also exploredand exploited during the american timeokaysoit's very very expensive already andum the the that species oftree was almost wiped out and extinctbecause of uhoverexploitation in illegal lagging ormaybe there's a time in spanish indianillegal of course they are the one whoowns oligarchsthey exploited also ourmineral resourcesever since spanish and american era iuh see la una exploit nungatingminers okay so this is a picture of aa children on my picture na americanouh public and private schools okay sothese are the children notthe early children's that were taughtnot that timeso modern19th century and the 20th century thatcame afterokay okay and then another isthe transportation and communicationsystems were improvedthough not accessible throughout thecountry okay so no timeline like nextokay so in this time alsothe protestant church mission indifferent places in the country alsobrought hospitals and schools tofarflung areas againof course they do not really um they donot recognizethe vatican or the pope as their headokaychurch even though we are all christiansbut uhthe catholic church so that's that's whythey called protestantokay so however in world war twohad this stabilized the development ofthe country in many ways of courseestablishedbecause this is the most messy messywar in the history of mankindno so the institutions and publicfacilities were turned into asheshouses were burned and many lives weredestroyedof course as the world war is wara world war it means the world is on warokayjapaneseso since the establishmentof the new republic the whole nation whohas been focusing on using its limitedresourcesin improving its science andtechnological capability no supportokay so just imagine after world war twoactually after world war iiin control of our government so art sobecause uhthere are two terms of commonwealth uhgovernment so commonwealth governmentwhich is a first led bymanuel quezon is so the president manuelquezonactually the commonwealth thecommonwealth means uheven though we have a president but thenthe pill that theamericans still have an influence no onhowor on how we run things in our accountcommonwealth pero later out later aftertwotwo years uh i know two presidents imeanuhthat we run our own country after thecommonwealth governmentso that we have really uhreally uh 100 may be controlling ourcountry okay so but yeahamericans know which is awe need to love our country as it is nonot uhwe we idolize uh somewhere or foreignpeople that is really not100 percent hard on us no there's onlywewe are the only one the filipinos thefilipinos musthave his own mind and whole heartdevotedand loyal to the philippi thephilippines and the filipino peopleso thatnow we will talk about the governmentpolicies on science and technology so ofcoursegovernment our own government of coursewe need to establishalso a policies with regards to scienceand technologyif we not if we will if the governmentwill notmake a policy or hindion government foresight for theimprovement of science and technologythen okay soit needs to be made aloneso the philippine government introducedand implemented several programsprojects and politics a policy sorryto boost the area of science andtechnologyso the goal is to prepare the wholecountry and its people to meet thedemandsof a technologically driven world andcapacitythe people to live in a world driven byscience okay so the national researchcouncil of the philippines clusteredthese policies into fourokay last turn ncrpand policies the first oneis the social sciences humanitieseducation international policies andgovernmentthe second physics engineering andindustrial researchearth and space sciences and mathematicsthe third one which isthe medical chemical and pharmaceuticalscienceand the last one is the biologicalscience agriculture and forestryokay so this is the logo of the nrcpthe national research council of thephilippines which was established in1933that is before the world war two okayokay so there's also other existingprograms supported by thephilippine government through thedepartment of science and technologiesseparate department that is onlyfocusingon the improvement of science andtechnology so yeahyoung department of science andtechnology soumto provide funds for basic research andpatents related to science andtechnology okay soof courseyou need of course that's reality youneed moneyanother is to provide scholarship forundergraduate and graduate studiesof students in the field of science andtechnologynot sadlyscience and technology science naturalscienceit's it is expensive no expensivemom expensive schoolpublic school state colleges anduniversitiesthey really want to pursue a course thatisin the field of science and technologybut sadly they cannot because theycannot afford itust student for scholarshipokay and then another one isestablishing more branches ofphilippine science high school systemokay soat the philippines high school systemare you familiar with the regionalscience high school and engineersrightwho is interested in pursuing scienceso okay so this is the logo of the ustokay so i know that you're familiar withthis the the doseokay so yesdon't just be observed observantokay okay so another isthe balik scientist program to encouragefilipino scientists abroad to comehome and work in the philippinesthey practice their specialization thereand then of course that is the laws ofthephilippines okay so that's the reasonwhyin this uh actually in this umin this the current the currentgovernment now yeah theuh our president dutertesigned the body scientist program lawthough it means thatit encouraged filipino scientists nofrom abroadso another is developing science andtechnology parks in academic campuses toencourageacademic and industry partnership okaysocollaboration ustand then the establishment of thenational science complex and nationalengineering complex within theuniversity of the philippinescampusum establishment of this uh groupthis organization saludong up soi think that this is the main mainoffice somesomethingto talk about something or tocollaborate butmaybe the mandate of this organizationokay the philippine american academy ofscience and engineering2008 identified several capacitybuilding programs such as establishmentofnational centers of excellenceestablishment of natural center ofexcellenceor schoolsno that uh offers a horse you knowso for example uh like the whimsu uhthey are uhum the center of excellence no center ofexcellence when it comes toproviding educational educationor education related course okayso they're given that no oh at allan educational is the center ofexcellenceokay so meronyan listand then anuyu manga programming theircenter of excellenceokay so actually middle away and centerof excellence and the center ofdevelopmentokay so when it comes to uh inin our uh in zamboanga cityuh the western mindanao state universityis center of excellence when it comes toum providing uh another tower uhthe the education coursesuh another x center of excellence insomeonethe city stateof marine science technology when itcomes to their bachelorof fisheries and marine sciences okaythey are center of excellence alsoumwe are center of development alsouh in uh providing uh umcourses education courses also like theone whothat the the western internationaluniversityhave okay so that is the one uh theum how how they give know how theythey uh the philippine american academyof science and engineeringuh labeled the this so to know thatgiven programs you know for programcourses or the courses that isprovide provided or givingto the i meanwhen it comes to school okay somanpower and institutional developmentprograms such as the engineering andscience education programto produce phd graduates in science andengineering okaywhen it comes to science and engineeringof regional is to support scientific inthis specific industrythe establishment of science andtechnology businesscenters to assist advise and incubatetechno premiership venturesand to strengthen science education atan early stagethrough the philippine science highschool systemsphilippine science high school system sostrength and science education at earlystage so that isthat uh that early stage is the highschoolokay so now that when we talk about thecurrent education systemsoso what does it mean stem this the stemstrandokay the science technology engineeringand mathematicsokay somy magazine is not like the stem likethis noor the gas or the abm noaccounting business management sospecialization even thoughhigh school so that will guide you toyourcollege uh how you will uh selectknow your course in the future or whatyou want to practicein the future and what profession youwant to practice in the futureso the commission on higher educationhas lunch it's philippinecalifornia advanced research instituteor thethe commission on higher educationand higher educationthe philippine california advancedresearch so my collaboration within thephilippines and the california advancedresearch instituteinstitute to strengthen thecompetitiveness of theof these students of the students so thephilippine congress has also createdvarious lawsrelated to science and technology theselawsvary according to different teams suchas conservationhealth related technology buildingand support basic research among othersokay okay so of courseuh because it's low and policies arevery importantother um other organizationinternational organization that'shelping usestablish our science and technology andscience educationwe have the united nation and then wehave the unescothe united nations educationalscientific and cultural organizationwhich isstill under the u.n and the associationof southeast asian nation or the aseanokay somalaysiawhen it comes to science and technologyokay now we will move on to talkingaboutour top 10 famous filipinos in thefields of scienceokay so of course nothe answer is yes okay so now we willtalk about themokay so let's start with ramon cabanasthis is actually organized uhand the third one is the third pictureand the fourth one is the fourth picturein that order so barbano contributed for his outstandingresearch on the tissue cultureexport now philippineshe is uh one of the contributions ofculture in the philippine bengals andthen we have anotherwe have josefinono on his work on observing thecharacteristics ofantarctica by using satellite imagesby using satellite image and then wehave another onejose beharpus jr knowninternationally in the field ofelectrical engineerand was elected as the officer of thefamous institute of electrical andelectronic engineeringso this is uh jose behar cruz jrand then we have another lourdes johnsuiciousnotable for her research on sea snailvinookay contributionsokay another one we have fabian millerno for his research in herbal medicineumdiscussed in a very long time we haveall we havebefore pathwayshe already established a research aboutthe effectivity of these herbalmedicines that we are usingthere is uh because of that scientificestablishmentherbal medicine againfor his research on tilapia culture okaysoactually this is uh seven eightnine ten okay so that is uh just ignorethethe numbering that is uh not correctokay so we have uh lillianfor malej for doing research on plantbiotechnology so this isand then we have marijuana even ruizfor being an outstanding educator andgraph choiceokay and then the last one we havegregory godfor his research in the field ofcommunication technologyso and then umthis is among other honorable mentionsso there are other outstandingphilippine scientists that arerecognized here and abroad for theoutstanding contribution of science sohonorable mentions because it's a top 10but and yetuh their uh contribution for science inthe philippines is reallyum great no so we obsess our asaloma is an international renownedphysicistanother is we have edgardo gomez uh heis uh he is a famous submarinemarine biologist no in marine sciencescienceand then we have uh william padulina achemistryand president of the national academy ofscience and technologyokay national academy of sciencetechnologyorganizationoutstanding work in marine sciencesworksso now uhask yourself no this is my this is uhthediscussion points there are manyquestions firstask yourself if what are thesignificance of contributions ofspaniards and americans to thedevelopment of science and technology inthe philippinesokay and then the second onehow does school science ship science andtechnology in the countryand then the third what can you sayabout the implementation of somescience and technology policies andprojects in thein the country okay soknowquestions okay so of course we havealready identified several filipinoscientistsand then their contributions not in thecountry for them in the fieldof science and then present the resultof your work in the class In October 2003 the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) andthe National Research Council (NRC) entered into a cooperative agreement thatcalled for the NRC to examine selected aspects of U.S. foreign assistance activities—primarily the programs of USAID—that have benefited or could benefit fromaccess to strong science, technology, and medical capabilities in the United Statesor elsewhere. After consideration of many aspects of the role of science and technology (S&T) in foreign assistance, the study led to recommendations for specificprogrammatic, organizational, and personnel reforms that would increase the effective use of S&T to meet USAID’s goals while supporting larger U.S. foreign policyobjectives. The statement of task is set forth in Appendix A.Shortly after the cooperative agreement was developed, additional financialsupport for the study was obtained from three other organizations. The NRC provided funds available from private sources. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation also provided substantial support. Then, at the request of the Science andTechnology Adviser to the Secretary of State, the Sloan Foundation contributedsupplemental funding.According to USAID officials, the agency’s interest in initiating a fresh examination of a topic that has been on the foreign assistance agenda for decadeswas rooted in several recent developments. These developments included the advent of new technologies that were sensitizing governments and populations tothe benefits of appropriate use of these technologies (e.g., deployment of globalpositioning satellite systems, advances in genetic engineering, and developmentsin nanotechnology). At the same time, the agency recognized that many wellestablished technologies would remain of great importance throughout the developing world for decades to come. In addition, problems in the developing counviii PREFACEtries that could be moderated through effective use of S&T increasingly affect theUnited States (infectious diseases, global environmental problems, and protection of intellectual property rights, for example). Finally, using technologies effectively in anticipating and responding to natural disasters, such as earthquakes,tsunamis, hurricanes, droughts, and floods, remains a high priority for the agency.According to senior USAID officials, two other developments also played arole in raising the interest of the USAID leadership in investments in S&T. TheWorld Bank, other donor governments, and private foundations, particularly theGates Foundation, were increasing their interests in S&T. All the while, a largenumber of U.S. government departments and agencies were expanding S&Toriented activities in developing countries that increasingly overlapped with USAIDprogram interests.The following reports concerning the importance of S&T in internationalaffairs in general and in international development in particular were also citedby USAID officials as being of considerable interest.• In 1999 the NRC issued a privately funded report entitled The PervasiveRole of Science, Technology, and Health in Foreign Policy: Imperatives for theDepartment of State.• In 2001 the RAND Corporation issued a report prepared for the WorldBank entitled Science and Technology Collaborations: Building Capacity in Developing Countries.• In 2002 USAID asked the RAND Corporation to extend the work it haddone for the World Bank by carrying out consultations with three USAID missions, which led to the report USAID and Science and Technology Capacity Building for Development.Against this background of new interest in the topic, senior officials of theNRC and USAID became engaged in a series of meetings and informal discussions to review recent reports and to consider the opportunities for integratingS&T considerations more fully into the international development process. Thesediscussions led to the present report.The NRC has had extensive experience in addressing S&T issues within theframework of international development. Over the last four decades the NationalAcademies has issued numerous reports on this topic and carried out a number ofprojects with developing country counterparts. A list of the recent reports that areparticularly relevant to this study is included in Appendix I. Other relevant NRCactivities that are underway are identified in Appendix J.The NRC appointed a multidisciplinary committee of experts in internationalaffairs and foreign assistance, and particularly S&T activities, to carry out thisstudy. The committee members are identified in Appendix B.Initially, the committee surveyed a broad range of USAID activities. Theseactivities included programs supported by funds appropriated for developmentPREFACE ixassistance, child survival and health, humanitarian assistance, economic securitysupport, and stabilization and reconstruction efforts in wartorn countries. As thestudy progressed and after consulting with USAID, the committee decided tofocus its efforts largely on development assistance and child survival and healthwhile still taking into account other USAID activities. The committee believesthat building appropriate S&T capacity is central to longterm development ofcountries where USAID has programs. However, the budget for developmentassistance has been on the decline despite the rapid growth of other types ofassistance. The committee considered that an emphasis on development assistance would help the U.S. Executive Branch and the Congress assess whether thebudget decline has been in the national interest.The committee, in consultation with USAID officials, selected for analysisfive important problems that exemplify the range of S&Trelated issues confronting large numbers of developing countries:1. Child survival;2. Safe water;3. Agricultural research;4. Microeconomic reform; and5. Natural disasters.The purpose of analyzing these problems, which cut across a range of socialand environmental concerns, was to help identify categories of administrativeand technical issues that should be addressed in assessing USAID’s overall capabilities to use S&T effectively.Small teams of committee members, NRC staff, and other experts visited sixcountries where USAID supports significant activities that have considerable S&Tcontent. The purpose of the visits was to obtain field insights on the role of S&Tin foreign assistance, with a focus on the practical aspects of carrying out S&Trelated projects in different overseas environments. The countries and the topicsof focus were:• India: health care;• Bangladesh: agriculture and food security;• Philippines: energy and environment;• Guatemala and El Salvador: biodiversity; and• Mali: poverty in a resourcedeficient country.In each country, consultations were held with senior officials and specialistsfrom USAID and other U.S. government departments and agencies, with localofficials and specialists, and with project managers working for USAID partners.The visiting teams concentrated on the likely impacts of current USAID programs and particularly the importance of S&T contributions to the effectivenessx PREFACEof the programs. It was important, of course, to consider these programs withinthe context of the host country’s priorities, related activities of other donors, andactivities of other U.S. government departments and agencies. The reports prepared following the visits can be obtained from the public access file of the NRCby contacting pkoshel@nas.edu.Another important source of information was the report of USAID’s Worldwide Mission Directors Conference held in May 2005. Conclusions from the conference are included in this report.Throughout the study the committee members and staff consulted with representatives of many USAID offices in Washington (see Appendix D). The viewsof USAID partners and independent experts in the United States as well as in thefield have been of considerable importance to the committee, and these contactsare identified in Appendix E.During the process the committee was mindful of the importance of successful projects that demonstrate approaches that work. Appendix H presents a fewprojects that have been identified by USAID as having been of particular interest.In September 2004 the committee issued an interim report outlining its general approach to the study. In response, several USAID offices, 10 USAID missions, and other organizations offered their observations concerning the directionthe study was taking. These responses were considered in preparing the presentreport, and some of the observations that were provided are included in the bodyof this report.After reviewing the many inputs received, the committee decided to devoteChapter 1 of this report to describing the context for the role of S&T in foreignassistance, drawing on the interim report and on other observations during thecourse of the study. Chapter 2 discusses the five problem areas selected for special attention. The conclusions and recommendations of the report are then setforth in three chapters. Chapter 3 presents suggestions as to USAID’s role instrengthening the capacity of developing countries to select and adapt existingand emerging technologies to their needs and to develop the human resource,policy, and facility infrastructures that are essential to use S&T effectively in thedevelopment process. Chapter 4 is devoted to USAID’s internal capability to useS&T expertise effectively in developing and managing its programs in ways thatrespond to developing country needs and priorities. Chapter 5 considers the integration of USAID programs and interests with the activities of other U.S. government departments and agencies. In this regard, an estimated 40 departments andagencies have active programs in developing countries, with financial resourcesprovided by USAID or through their own congressional appropriations.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSMany important aspects of foreign assistance could not be addressed adequately within the constraints of time and funds available for this study: forPREFACE xiexample, the significance of S&T in reconstruction efforts supported by USAIDand other donors in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other wartorn areas was not addressed.The roles of international organizations, development banks, and other bilateraldonors in supporting S&Trelated activities and coordination of their activitieswith USAID’s efforts certainly deserve more attention. The contributions to development of technologyoriented multinational companies and of the private sectors of the developing countries themselves should be elaborated. Philanthropicand nongovernmental organizations are only briefly mentioned. The field visitswere extraordinarily important, and additional visits would provide many newinsights into the USAID experience in drawing on the S&T strengths of the UnitedStates in developing program strategies and in designing, implementing, andevaluating projects.Many USAID staff members and partners at headquarters and in the fieldassisted the committee. We especially appreciated the insights offered by Andrew Natsios, the former Administrator, who clearly recognizes the need tostrengthen the use of science and technology in the agency’s development activities. We would also like to thank Gary Bittner, Emmy Simmons, Anne Peterson,John Grayzel, John Becker, and Neal Brandes for their support. Rosalyn Hobson,now at Virginia Commonwealth University and a former American Associationfor the Advancement of Science Fellow at USAID, deserves special thanks forguiding the committee members and staff through the many relevant officeswithin USAID and providing excellent advice about the development context forUSAID activities during the field visits. In addition, special appreciation is dueCraig Meisner, who was responsible for organizing the site visit in Bangladesh.Several experts who accompanied members of the committee on the fieldvisits and who provided general guidance to the committee greatly enriched thequality of the report: Michael Clegg, Foreign Secretary of the National Academyof Sciences and Professor, University of California, Irvine; Charles Hess, University of California, Davis; Anthony Stocks, Idaho State University; Helen Smits,Institute of Medicine; John Lewis, ProNatura USA; and Geoffrey Dabelko,Woodrow Wilson International Center.This report has been reviewed in draft form by individuals chosen for theirdiverse perspectives and technical expertise, in accordance with procedures approved by the NRC’s Report Review Committee. The purpose of this independent review is to provide candid and critical comments that will assist the institution in making its published report as sound as possible and to ensure that thereport meets institutional standards for objectivity, evidence, and responsivenessto the study charge. The review comments and draft manuscript remain confidential to protect the integrity of the process.We wish to thank the following individuals for their review of this report:Robert Black, Johns Hopkins University; Patrick Cronin, Center for Strategic andInternational Studies; John Daly, Consultant; KerriAnn Jones, National ScienceFoundation; Princeton Lyman, Council on Foreign Relations; Robert Tropp,xii PREFACEWashington Development Capital Corporation; Charles Weiss, Georgetown University; Charles Wilson, Independent Consultant; and Tilahun Yilma, Universityof California, Davis.Although the reviewers listed above provided many constructive commentsand suggestions, they were not asked to endorse the conclusions or recommendations, nor did they see the final draft of the report before its release. The review ofthis report was overseen by Enriqueta Bond, Burroughs Wellcome Fund, andNorman Neureiter, American Association for the Advancement of Science. Appointed by the NRC, they were responsible for making certain that an independent examination of this report was carried out in accordance with institutionalprocedures and that all review comments were carefully considered. Responsibility for the final content of this report rests entirely with the authoring committeeand the institution.Glenn Schweitzer and Pat Koshel provided able support for the entire studyeffort and for the report preparation. The committee was also assisted by a number of other staff members of the NRC including Laura Holliday and Sara Gray.Zainep Mahmoud, an Anderson Intern, and Suzanne Goh and Eric Bone, ChristineMirzayan Fellows, also aided the committee.Thomas R. PickeringKenneth ShineCochairsCommittee on Science and Technologyin Foreign AssistancexiiiContentsSUMMARY 11 THE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 13Shared Benefits from the Application of Science and Technology, 13Science and Technology as a Broad Platform for Development, 18Payoffs from Investments in S&T, 20The Changing Global Environment and Approaches toForeign Assistance, 26Expansion of AssistanceRelated Activities Within theU.S. Government, 30USAID’s Role in Supporting S&T Within Foreign Assistance, 30Working Both at the Frontiers and in the Mainstream of S&T, 35Can a Strong Science and Technology Presence Be SustainedWithin USAID? 362 FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 39Child Health and Child Survival, 39Safe Water, 42Agricultural Research to Reduce Hunger and Poverty, 47Microeconomic Reform, 54Natural Disasters, 573 STRENGTHENING THE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYCAPACITY OF DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 63xiv CONTENTS4 CAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE ANDTECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 73Eroded Staff Resources, 75Steps to Enhance S&T Capabilities Within USAID, 825 USAID’S COORDINATION WITH OTHERU.S. GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES 93EPILOGUE 103APPENDIXES 105A Statement of Task from Cooperative Agreement, 107B Biographies of Committee Members, 109C Field Visits and Key Organizations Contacted , 113D USAID Offices Consulted in Washington, 117E Other Organizations Consulted, 119F Report to Congress: HealthRelated Research and DevelopmentActivities at USAID, 121G USAID Agricultural and Natural Resources Management ResearchPriorities—Desktop Review, 131H Examples of USAID Support for Science and TechnologyRelatedPrograms, 135I Recent National Academies Reports Relevant to Science andTechnology in Development, 141J Recent National Academies Activities Relevant to Science andTechnology in Development, 143K PakistanU.S. Science and Technology Cooperative Program, 145L Description of USAID Recruitment Programs, 1471SummaryScience and technology (S&T) capabilities are fundamental for social and economicprogress in developing countries; for example, in the health sector, scientificresearch led to the development and introduction of oral rehydration therapy,which became the cornerstone of international efforts to control diarrheal diseases. Research also established that two cents worth of vitamin A given tochildren every six months could reduce child mortality in many countries by overonethird. In agriculture, ricewheat rotation techniques have significantlyenhanced food production in South Asia. In Central America, scientifically basednatural resource management has been essential in developing the tourist industry, a major source of foreign currency.International programs based on S&T are critical components of U.S. foreign policy, and particularly foreign assistance activities. Foreign assistance,probably more than any other international endeavor, provides opportunities forrepresentatives of the U.S. government and its partners to join with political andeconomic leaders, intellectuals, and activists of dozens of countries in continuing,constructive dialogues and in concrete projects designed to enhance the quality oflife of hundreds of millions of people. S&T are often the keystones for successfulprojects. The shared political and economic dividends from these activities canbe enormous.Maintaining and strengthening the contributions of the science, engineering,and medical capabilities of the United States to foreign assistance programsadministered by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) are thethemes of this report. USAID has unique and broad legislative authority to support innovative programs in developing countries, unrivaled field experience in2 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTadapting technological advances to conditions and capabilities of poor countries,and many successes in integrating S&T into development activities. Therefore, asS&T capabilities become even more important for all countries in addressingtraditional development issues and in coping with increased international flowsof goods and services and the rapid spread of diseases and contaminants, theagency should play a central role in promoting the S&Trelated programs of theU.S. government throughout the developing world.Unfortunately, many developing countries, particularly the poor countries ofAfrica, do not have the human resources, physical and economic infrastructures,and access to capital to take full advantage of the S&T expertise and achievements of the United States and other industrialized countries. Nevertheless, countries at all levels of development have a strong desire for more robust S&Tcapabilities. And some capability to understand the potential and limitations ofS&T, to select and effectively utilize suitable foreign technologies, and to develop local innovations is needed in every country.The observations and recommendations set forth below on the opportunitiesfor USAID to continue to play an important role in bringing to bear the S&Tresources of the United States on foreign assistance programs are based on extensive consultations by the committee of the National Research Council (NRC)responsible for this report. The members and staff met with many governmentofficials, foreign assistance practitioners, and S&T specialists in the United Statesand abroad. The committee sent small teams to six developing countries whereUSAID has significant programs. These countries and areas of special interestduring the field visits were:1. India: health;2. Philippines: energy;3. Bangladesh: agriculture and food security;4. Guatemala and El Salvador: biodiversity; and5. Mali: poverty in a resourcedeficient country.To help ensure that the conclusions of this report have broad significance,the committee addressed five development challenges that affect hundreds ofmillions of people each year. These challenges are:1. Child survival;2 Safe water;3. Agricultural research;4. Microeconomic reform; and5. Prevention of and response to natural disasters.International approaches to providing assistance to developing countries arechanging; for example, global programs with important S&T dimensions thatSUMMARY 3target health, food production, environmental, and other problems omnipresent inthe developing countries are growing in number and size while bilateral assistanceis also increasing. A particularly important challenge for USAID is to find its roleamidst the expanding network of dozens of foreign assistance providers, and particularly those providers of S&Trelated assistance that draws on the limited capabilities of recipient countries to manage technologyoriented programs.Beyond foreign assistance funds provided by governments, other financialflows to developing countries with S&T implications are growing. They includeforeign direct investment by the private sector, remittances to friends and relatives in developing countries sent home by émigrés who are resident in theindustrialized countries, contributions to development projects by private foundations, and initiatives designed to benefit local populations supported by multinational companies. At the same time, some donors and international banks arecanceling debt repayment obligations of a few poor countries, thereby enhancingthe ability of these countries to invest more in education, agriculture, and otheractivities essential to longterm development.Private flows often support technical education and vocational training.Private foundations sometimes support longterm research programs in searchof breakthroughs, and Table S1 presents an important example in this regard. Ofspecial significance are publicprivate partnerships in mobilizing financial andtechnological resources for use in poor countries. For example, results achievedby the Global Development Alliance, which links USAID and many privatecompany capabilities, have demonstrated the positive affects of welldesignedtechnologyoriented partnerships.Meanwhile, within the U.S. government the responsibilities for programs indeveloping countries are rapidly diffusing, with USAID now financing only about50 percent of the government’s international development programs. The independent Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), which was established bythe U.S. government in 2002, has a multibilliondollar development programdirected to 23 countries although it has been slow in launching its initial projects.The Department of State has relatively new responsibilities for programs directedto combating HIV/AIDS, also with an annual budget in the billions of dollars. ItsHIV/AIDS program is moving forward very quickly while a number of otherU.S. departments and agencies, international organizations, and private foundations finance directly related activities (see Figure S1).A new office in the Department of State is responsible for planning andcoordinating reconstruction activities following hostilities in countries aroundthe globe. In addition to USAID, the Department of Defense continues to be amajor contributor to reconstruction efforts in wartorn countries and plays animportant role in responding to humanitarian disasters. Many other departmentsand agencies, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, theDepartment of Agriculture, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Department of Energy, have expanded the international dimensions of their mission4 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTLongTerm Goal to ImproveHealth in the Developing World Associated Grand ChallengesImprove childhood vaccines • Create effective singledose vaccines• Prepare vaccines that do not requirerefrigeration• Develop needlefree vaccine deliverysystemsCreate new vaccines • Devise testing systems for newvaccines• Design antigens for protectiveimmunity• Learn about immunological responseControl insects that transmit • Develop genetic strategy to controlagents of disease insects• Develop chemical strategy to controlinsectsImprove nutrition to promote • Create a nutrientrich staple planthealth seriesImprove drug treatment of • Find drugs and delivery systems toinfectious diseases limit drug resistanceCure latent and chronic infection • Create therapies that can cure latentinfection• Create immunological methods tocure latent infectionMeasure health status accurately • Develop technologies to assessand economically in developing population healthcountries • Develop versatile diagnostic toolsoriented activities that potentially overlap with traditional development activities; and a large fraction of these programs have substantial S&T components.Within this myriad of expanding activities, USAID supports hundreds offoreign assistance projects. But its role in carrying out its program is increasinglydetermined by dozens of congressional earmarks and White House initiatives,including many with S&T components. Some earmarks sustain important programs, but too often, earmarks do not have high development dividends whenthey focus on narrow special interests.SOURCE: Gates Foundation, August 2005.TABLE S1 The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation’s Grand Challenges toGlobal HealthSUMMARY 5In recent years, the agency has lost much of its directhire staff with technicalexpertise while other government departments and agencies with much strongerexpertise in specific areas of interest to these organizations are expanding theiractivities in developing countries. This decline of technical expertise is the singlemost important reason why USAID has lost much of its S&T capability andreputation, which is critical in providing leadership in applying S&T to overcomedevelopment problems. Strong USAID internal capabilities are essential to guidethe effective use of S&T resources in agency programs and to work collaboratively on problems of common interest with other organizations that have wellestablished technical capabilities.Since S&T are integral components of many foreign assistance activities,consideration of USAID’s efforts to draw on the nation’s S&T capabilities mustbegin with consideration of USAID’s broader role in foreign assistance. USAIDwill, of course, continue to follow the decisions of the Administration and Congress to support program activities in many fields within USAID’s establishedprogram framework of governance and humanitarian assistance, reconstructionin wartorn areas, global health, and broadly defined economic growth; however,the agency should to the extent possible select a few areas of emphasis within thisframework where it can concentrate resources and be an international leader inaddition to its wellestablished leadership role in promoting democratic governance. Criteria for selecting such areas should include (1) high levels of developPresident sEmergencyFund forAIDS ReliefMajorProgramsBased inU.S.U.S.Contributionto GlobalFundUSAIDProgramsNIAID Supportof LocalResearchers &CDCSurveillanceActivitiesGatesFoundationDeveloping Countries LocalContributionsWorld BankandRegionalDevelopmentBanksOtherGovernmentsOtherFoundationsandHumanitarianGroupsPharmaceuticaland MedicalEquipmentCompaniesOtherProgramsFIGURE S1 Organizations involved in combating HIV/AIDS in developing countries.6 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTing country interest, (2) opportunities to have significant impacts on development, (3) relevance of USAID’s unique field experience, and (4) limited interestof other U.S. departments and agencies in providing substantial financial supportfor activities in the areas.Programs in some or all of these areas will undoubtedly require substantialS&T inputs. One area for possible emphasis is health delivery systems, an areathat the committee strongly supports. Other examples that the committee believesshould be considered are small innovative firms, agriculture extension, and information technology. The program emphasis within each area should be on institution building, including establishment of research, education, training, and service capabilities.In order to continue to support its current portfolio of programs as well asnew activities, USAID needs stronger inhouse technical staff capabilities. Givenrigid congressional limitations on personnel levels, the agency will have no choicein the near term but to continue to rely heavily on a combination of directhireemployees, assignees from other U.S. agencies, and contractor personnel to manage programs implemented by USAID’s partners. Nevertheless, as recommendedin this report, the agency should recruit an adequate number of technically traineddirecthire employees to lead the design and evaluation of institution building andinnovation activities, particularly in the areas of emphasis that are selected.Against this background, the committee offers three overarching recommendations for consideration by USAID, the Department of State, the Office ofManagement and Budget, Congress, and other interested organizations. Suggestions of specific steps for implementing the recommendations are also set forth.The recommendations, if implemented, would strengthen USAID’s capabilitiesto play a more effective role in supporting technical innovation as a key tosuccessful international development.Most of the suggestions are general and cut across development sectors. Asnoted above, while carrying out the agency’s many programs mandated by Congress and the White House, USAID should also begin to focus on several areas ofemphasis and concentrate available resources in these areas within the framework of the recommendations that are set forth below.Recommendation 1: USAID should reverse the decline in its support forbuilding S&T capacity within important development sectors in developingcountries. Clearly, development of human resources and building relevant institutions must be at the top of the priority list if nations are to have the ability todevelop, adapt, and introduce technological innovations in sectors of importanceto their governments, the private sector, and their populations. To this end, USAIDshould:• Increase the number of USAIDsponsored participants in highly focusedgraduate training programs to develop future leaders in various S&T disciplines;SUMMARY 7• Increase financial support for applied research and outreach, includingextension, at local institutions that can support host country priority programs ofinterest to USAID;• Provide increased financial support for development of local capacity todeliver public health services, including support for the establishment of strongschools of public health in developing countries;• Assist important institutions in developing countries in using broadbandaccess to Internet and other modern technologies to strengthen their informationacquisition and processing capabilities in support of S&T specialists; and• Sponsor expert assessments of the S&T infrastructures in countrieswhere USAID has major programs when there are interested customers for suchassessments.Recommendation 2: USAID should strengthen the capabilities of its leadership and program managers in Washington and in the field to recognize andtake advantage of opportunities for effectively integrating S&T considerationswithin USAID programs. The following steps by USAID would help achievethis objective.• Development of an S&T culture within USAID, with the agency leadership continually articulating in policy papers, internal discussions, and interactions with host governments the importance of (1) strengthening local S&T capabilities, (2) integrating these capabilities within a broad range of developmentactivities, and (3) incorporating S&T in USAID programs;• Strengthening of USAID staff capabilities in S&T through (1) recruitment of senior officials with strong S&T credentials and good project management track records, (2) an increased number of entrylevel positions devoted toyoung professionals with S&T expertise, and (3) career incentives for technically trained employees to remain at USAID, and particularly, promotion opportunities based on an individual’s success in applying technical skills to USAIDprograms; and• Appointment of a fulltime S&T adviser to the administrator, with adequate staff, to alert the USAID leadership and program managers on a continuing basis to overlooked and new opportunities for programs with significant S&Tcontent. Figure S2 suggests how the adviser might be positioned within theagency.• Establishment of an independent S&T advisory mechanism to addresstechnical issues of interest to the USAID leadership and to promote peer reviewthroughout the agency (see Figure S2);• Establishment of a nongovernmental Innovation Center to concentrate onapplication of innovative technologies to specific development problems identified by USAID missions, USAID Washington, and the Center’s staff (see Figure S2);8 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT• Strengthening the economic analysis capability of USAID to help ensurethat the many dimensions of technological change occurring in almost everydeveloping country are adequately considered when designing and implementingagency projects; and• Revitalizing the program evaluation capability of USAID using rigorousmethodologies to gauge program effectiveness.Dept. of StateS&T AdviserPolicy &ProgramCoordinationAdviceOffice of theUSAID S&TAdviserInnovationCenterS&T AdvisoryCommitteeUSAIDAdministratorPillarBureausRegionalBureausUSAID Field MissionsEstablishrequirementsProvideadviceBIFADOtherAdvisoryBoardsSecretaryofStateFIGURE S2 Strengthening the organizational structure for S&T in USAID.SUMMARY 9Recommendation 3. USAID should encourage other U.S. government departments and agencies with S&Trelated activities in developing countries toorient their programs to the extent possible to supporting the developmentpriorities of the host countries, and USAID should provide leadership in improving interagency coordination of activities relevant to development.USAID’s long history of working in developing countries provides the agencywith unique field perspectives, but it is not as strong as other departments andagencies in many technological areas. Its capabilities should be effectively integrated with the welldeveloped S&T capabilities of other U.S. government organizations. To that end, USAID should:• Assume leadership, in cooperation with the Department of State and theOffice of Science and Technology Policy, in the establishment in Washington ofan effective interagency committee to coordinate the overlapping S&T interestsof U.S. departments and agencies in developing countries;• Emphasize within the joint StateUSAID planning process and in the fieldthe payoff from broad interagency coordination of S&Trelated activities;• Clarify the division of responsibilities for supporting research relevant tointernational development supported by USAID and other U.S. government departments and agencies. Table S2 presents a suggested role for USAID in thehealth sector;• Work with other government organizations that are involved in preventing and responding to natural disasters with an expanded emphasis on the capacity of developing countries to improve early warning systems, upgrade the resilience of physical structures to impacts, increase availability of emergency socialsupport resources, and develop hazard mitigation and emergency response strategies that can be integrated with longterm development programs;• Work closely with the Departments of State and Defense and other national and international organizations involved in reconstruction of wartorn areas, taking advantage of the technical capabilities of these partners while sharingUSAID’s field experience in charting the course for recovery;• Develop USAID programs that complement the programs of the Department of State for combating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, capitalizingon USAID’s unique field experience to build local capacity for delivering healthservices; and• Encourage the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) to take advantage of USAID’s many years of experience in promoting international development in the countries where the MCC has initiated programs.USAID has recorded many achievements in using S&T to overcome obstacles to development; for example, support of effective policies for integratingenergy networks has brought electrical power to thousands of remote villages inSouth Africa. In Namibia a USAID partnership with Microsoft and Compaq has10Improved HealthOutcomesLocal agenciesUSAID (major)Global fundWHOBilateral donorsPEPFARPharmaceutical and medicalsupply companiesLocal research organizationsUSAIDBilateral donorsNIHPharmaceuticalcompaniesInternationalfoundationsLocal researchorganizationsLocal agenciesUSAID (major)/ CDCBilateral donorsAdaptation at scaleStrengtheningnational healthsystemsMonitor programeffectiveness andmodify approachesProduct developmentField trialsConsumer researchModification of existingproductsDisease surveillanceAssessments ofburden of diseaseIdentification ofCritical KnowledgeGapsFieldImplementation andEvaluationAppliedResearch/Development/AdaptationBasic Research Health Assessment/Priority SettingPerformanceTaskTABLE S4 Improving Health Outcomes: Role of USAID in the New Global Landscape for Research on Special Problemsof Developing CountriesSUMMARY 11developed effective egovernment services and has dramatically enhanced civilparticipation in parliamentary affairs.Now, the challenge is for the entire agency to recognize more fully theopportunities to integrate one of America’s strongest assets—S&T—into foreignassistance and to transform this recognition into action programs in the field. TheU.S. government faces many new issues in developing countries, from countering terrorism, implementing policies of the World Trade Organization, and addressing global environmental threats, to improving America’s image. U.S. S&Tcapabilities can help equip USAID to address such issues while also buildingbridges of mutual understanding that will far transcend traditional concepts of thepayoffs to the United States from investments in foreign assistance.Realization of this vision will not be easy. In the competition for access tolimited foreign assistance funds, important constituencies of USAID that embrace basic human needs as the overriding priority have never accepted the approach of technology transfer, stimulation of economic growth, and diffusion ofbenefits to the general population from innovative nodes in the economy and insociety. Nevertheless, with the upsurge in the foreign assistance budget and theglobalization of problems, institutions, and solutions, there should be an opportunity for the private voluntary organizations to have funding for their grassrootsprograms and for USAID to simultaneously undertake serious S&T investmentsfor longterm economic growth.The entire foreign assistance establishment must be persuaded that S&T arecrucial enablers of development and not simply endpoints. Just as governance hasbecome a significant rationale for much of America’s global presence, so S&Tmust be recognized as an essential platform for transforming aspirations forbetter lives into durable and practical reality. Only then will the sustainability ofa strong S&T component within USAID be assured.131The Changing Context for Foreign AssistanceResponding to Developing Country Aspirations forEffectively Using S&TSHARED BENEFITS FROM THE APPLICATION OFSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYEach year tens of millions of children die because of lack of access to adequatehealth care, food supplies, and clean water. The death rates from HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and other widespread diseases continue their upward trajectories.Lifesustaining ecosystems throughout the developing world are being damagedbeyond repair in quests by both the richand the poor for immediate utilization ofnatural resources.Despite the efforts of many developingcountry governments and local institutions—supported by internationalorganizations, bilateral donors, and private organizations—to moderate theseand other lifethreatening problems,more than 100 developing countries faceominous longterm development issuesthat adversely affect vulnerable populations with unrelenting intensity. At thesame time, tens of millions of lives areplunged deeper into poverty each year asthe result of natural disasters and armedviolence that strike throughout the developing world, an example of which isBOX 11I’ve been in war, and I’ve beenthrough a number of hurricanes,tornadoes, and other relief operations; but I have never seenanything like this. Millions arehomeless, and the internationalcommunity has pledged $2 billionin relief efforts.SOURCE: Former Secretary of StateColin Powell as he viewed damagefrom the tsunami that struck Indonesia and other Southeast Asia countries in January 2005. Tsunami AidPledges Top $3 Billion. 2005. CBSNews, January 5, 2005.14 1117.9 2.79  41,400 78 296 United States ß24,146 62  46.4 500 46 705 SubSaharanAfrica6,171 61 .75 31.3 510 63 1,425 South Asia7,629 237  2.4 2,390 69 312 Middle East & N.Africa6,151 416 .53 9.5 3,280 71 533 Latin America &Caribbean10,465 438 .9 3.6 2,580 68 472 Europe & CentralAsia •7,131 357 1.11 14.9 1,070 70 1,855 East Asia &PacificNet Aid Flows($ millions)Fixed Line/ MobileSubscribers ß(per 1000 people)R&DExpenditures% of GDP% Populationbelow$1 PovertyLine*GNI perCapitaLifeExpectancy(years)Population(millions)RegionKey Indicators: Regional Data from the WDI Database http://www.worldbank.org/data/databytopic/reg_wdi.pdf* World Development Indicators 2005 (World Bank): Poverty http://www.worldbank.org/data/wdi2005/pdfs/Table2_5.pdfß CIA World Fact Book http://www.cia.gov/cia/publications/factbook/geos/us.html Fixed Line and Mobile Phone Subscribers http:// www.nationmaster.com /graph T/ med_pho_sub United States GNI per Capita: http://www.worldbank.org/data/databytopic/GNIPC.pdf• Europe & Central Asia: Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia ,Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia FYR, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation,Serbia and Montenegro, Slovak Republic, Tajikistan, Turkey, TurkmenistanTABLE 11 Development Indicators: Low and MiddleIncome Countries and the United StatesTHE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 15indicated in Box 11. On a broader scale, Table 11 indicates the economic gapbetween industrialized and developing countries.Science and technology (S&T) capabilities are fundamental for overcomingmany types of problems in developing countries; for example, in the healthsector, scientific research supported by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) led to the development and introduction of oral rehydrationtherapy, which became the cornerstone of international efforts to control diarrheal diseases. The agency carried out research that established that two centsworth of vitamin A given to individual children every six months could reducechild mortality in many countries by over onethird.1USAID’s mandate is very broad, of course, and its portfolio extends wellbeyond health, as indicated in Box 12. Many other development organizationshave also financed research and innovation activities in almost all developmentsectors. In addition, multinational companies, private foundations, and international research centers have supported such activities in developing countries.BOX 12The Role of the U.S. Agency for International Development(USAID)USAID is an independent government agency that provides economic, development, and humanitarian assistance in 100 developing countries. The types ofassistance include technical assistance and capacity building, training and scholarships, food aid and disaster relief, infrastructure construction, smallenterpriseloans, budget support, enterprise funds, and credit guarantees. USAID has partnerships with American businesses, private voluntary organizations, indigenousgroups, universities, international organizations, other governments, trade and professional associations, faithbased organizations, and other U.S. governmentagencies. USAID has working relationships through contracts and grant agreements with more than 3,500 companies and over 300 U.S.based private voluntaryorganizations. Its budget for FY 2005 was $9 billion, of which $3.7 billion wasmanaged jointly by USAID and the Department of State, and $1.1 billion was PL480 Food for Peace.SOURCE: USAID Primer: What We Do and How We Do It. Washington, DC: USAID, November 2005.1USAID. Report to Congress on HealthRelated Research and Development Activities at USAID.Washington, DC: USAID, June 2005.16 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTThere is a growing consensus among development specialists that research andinnovation are critical elements of the international effort to address difficultdevelopment issues within the much broader challenge of effectively applyingS&T to address problems in many types of physical, political, and economicenvironments.Problems in developing countries affect the United States in many ways; forexample, emerging and endemic diseases, such as SARS, avian flu, and tuberculosis, cross borders at unprecedented rates as international flows of people andgoods increase. Environmental threats—including regional air pollution, growing water scarcity, and dwindling biodiversity—affect local livelihoods as well asU.S. interests and the interests of many other nations.As to direct U.S. benefits from S&Tbased foreign assistance activities, modern technologies deployed in distant countries from vaccines to information systems can be important in limiting the extent that problems in these countriesadversely affect both local populations and the broader global community. Inaddition, the talents and perspectives of geoscientists, biologists, and other researchers in poor countries contribute to international science. Unique innovations by local engineers and researchers to cope with problems prevalent in harshenvironments often lead to broader replication such as the use of ferrocementand new approaches to dryland agriculture.Meanwhile, global trade is expanding, along with international integrationof financial systems and growth ofworldwide communication networks.However, many developing countrieslack both the financial resources and thetechnical skills and experience to participate effectively in this globalizationdynamic. Indeed, some are becomingvictims of the process as global marketsbecome more competitive, and longstanding trade patterns are disrupted.Many governments are uncertain aboutthe new requirements of the World TradeOrganization (WTO) and are deeply concerned that they will be isolated furtherfrom the mainstream of internationalcommerce. How will they cope with strict enforcement of intellectual propertyrights, demands for higher levels of quality control of export products, and otherlegal obligations, they ask.BOX 13USAID has helped put Bangladesh’s number two export,shrimp, on a much firmer footingin the international market placeby launching the Seal of QualityProgram. Since exporters mustrespond to emerging globalstandards in food safety to receive the seal, the programhelps ensure the longterm viability of exports currently valuedat over $300 million annually.SOURCE: NRC report of field visit toBangladesh, January 2005.THE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 17WTO is, nevertheless, a reality. Few countries have a choice other than toattempt to adjust their trade and related policies even if newly established international norms and standards adversely affect their economies. These adjustmentsin developing countries in turn often directly affect American consumers andAmerican businesses. Box 13 sets forthan example of a USAID project inBangladesh that has important implications for enhancing capabilities to meetcurrent standards for international trade.A call for assistance related to international trade from the USAID mission inBolivia is presented in Box 14. The situation there in 2004 exemplified the international uncertainty associated withthe evolving trade environment.S&T, even when narrowly defined,are integral components of U.S. foreignpolicy and U.S. international programs—particularly foreign assistance activities.The United States benefits on many frontsfrom successful foreign assistance programs. These programs are now widelyrecognized in Washington as essentialactivities in promoting the national security interests of the United States.2Foreign assistance, probably morethan any other international endeavor, provides opportunities for the U.S. government and its partners to join on a continuing basis with political and economicleaders, intellectuals, and activists of dozens of countries in constructive dialogues and in concrete projects designed to enhance the quality of life of hundreds of millions of people. S&T are often the keystones for successful projectsand therefore focal points for discussion and analysis.In sum, the developing countries have urgent needs to use international S&Tachievements effectively while the United States has innumerable opportunitiesfor promoting humanitarian, political, economic, and national security intereststhrough sharing its expertise in S&T. These mutually beneficial challenges pro2The White House, National Security Strategy of the United States of America. Washington, DC,September 2002.BOX 14Guidance on how USAID canmost effectively use internationaltrade negotiations and agreements to mutually support S&Tdevelopments in the UnitedStates as well as in host countries would be valuable. USAIDhas provided assistance on tradecapacity building in a number ofcountries, including Bolivia. Thisassistance is directed to enhancing a country’s capability to participate effectively in trade negotiations, including expansion ofcivil society participation in theprocess, provision of training forofficials on important trade topics,and technical assistance to private enterprises that are or couldbe involved in international trade.SOURCE: USAID Bolivia, December2004.18 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTvide the backdrop for this report on the role of S&T in foreign assistance. Maintaining and strengthening the contributions of the science, engineering, and medical capabilities of the United States to programs administered by USAID are thethemes of the report. These contributions result in improved selection of assistance interventions, betterdesigned programs, more rigorous evaluations of theeffectiveness of interventions, and broader applications of S&T.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY AS ABROAD PLATFORM FOR DEVELOPMENTThe interim report3 of this study released in October 2004 defined the term“science and technology” (S&T) as used throughout the study to include thenatural sciences, engineering, technology, the health sciences, and the economicand social sciences. This report continues to include these disciplines within thescope of S&T. In most cases in the developing countries, S&T activities arecomponents, or enabling elements, within programs directed to achieve educational, economic, social, and political objectives. This concept recognizes thepervasive role of S&T in development and is somewhat broader than more traditional definitions of S&T, which focus on research and science and engineeringeducation.From the vantage point of developing countries, S&T should involve interconnected national and international systems of activities that encourage theacquisition and generation of important knowledge and the application of thisknowledge to improve the quality of life and the security of populations. Thus,S&T are fundamental building blocks for development.In the context of U.S. foreign assistance, S&T are integral to the capacity ofthe public and private sectors in developing countries to:• Provide technical services that support economic and social development—such as provision of health care, education, agriculture extension, transportation, communications, maintenance and upgrading of water supplies andsanitation facilities, management of natural resources, and energy and environmental services;• Assess the technical and economic merits of technologies being considered for use in the country of interest and within that context carry out research,development, technology transfer, technology adaptation, and technology application activities;• Produce industrial goods and agricultural products based on technologiesand modern management methods that are well suited to the local environment;3National Research Council. Science and Technology in U.S. Foreign Assistance: Interim Reportto the Administrator, U.S. Agency for International Development. Washington, DC: The NationalAcademies Press, 2004.THE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 19• Prepare and evaluate implementation of economic, trade, industrial, agricultural, health, education, environmental, and other policies that have technicaldimensions or that influence the acquisition and use of technical resources;• Participate in international trade negotiations, environmental treaty discussions, and other types of policy dialogues involving technical issues of political, economic, and social importance;• Conduct programs that heightenpublic awareness of the potential andlimitations of modern technologies toimprove the wellbeing of the public; and• Develop an appropriate physicalinfrastructure, human resource base, andeducational and training institutions tosupport the foregoing activities.Box 15 highlights concerns over inadequate attention to S&T in Mali whereUSAID has major programs but investslittle in developing human resourcestrained in important S&T fields.In addressing the role of USAID incapitalizing on the S&T strengths of U.S.and other organizations, this report givesspecial attention to the agency’s capabilities to:• Assess the S&T capacity of developing countries to design, manage, andevaluate programs that contribute to the development and maintenance of thiscapacity;• Evaluate available technologies and encourage development of promisingnew approaches while incorporating suitable technologies, research findings, andmodern management methods in USAID projects—with special attention to facilitating the transfer of these methods and technologies to the developing countries themselves;• Participate effectively in interagency and international discussions involving S&Trelated issues in developing countries while supporting and helpingto coordinate U.S. governmentwide S&T activities relevant to USAID’s development objectives; and• Recruit, retain, and effectively utilize personnel capable of supporting theforegoing activities.USAID has valuable experience with each of these activities. Indeed, theagency has a long history of international leadership in mobilizing technical experBOX 15As a result of Mali’s heavydependence on agriculture,combined with a relatively inhospitable and increasingly fragileenvironment, Mali’s stability isdirectly linked to natural systems. It is essential to devotegreater attention to how S&T resources can be used to sustainlivelihoods without substantiallydegrading the natural resourcebase.SOURCE: Unpublished report of theNRC Committee on Science andTechnology in Foreign Assistance onfield visit to Mali, March 2005.20 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTtise and related resources to promote development. Since the 1960s, USAID hasbeen in the forefront among developmentagencies in institution building—for example, in supporting the establishment ofhighquality technical universities; hospitals, clinics, and medical research centers;agricultural research and extension organizations; and environmental agenciesand regulatory structures. WhileUSAID’s interest in institution buildinghas been on the decline in recent years,the committee nevertheless was able todraw on extensive experience of theagency in formulating its views as to future directions for institution building aswell as other activities. Box 16 highlightsone of USAID’s longstanding institutionbuilding programs in Bangladesh.This report emphasizes the importance of considering S&T within a broadsystems context that determines the effectiveness of the use of technologies inspecific development sectors. At thesame time, support of research and innovation, which are core aspects of more traditional definitions of S&T, should notbe pushed aside; for example, Table 12 points out a number of important engineering challenges in the energy sector that require solutions based on researchand innovation. Some of these challenges could be addressed by USAID and itspartners, while others are more appropriate for the private sector. The importanceof advances in this sector cannot be overstated given projected increases in thecost of energy as worldwide demand increases. Table 13 addresses the emergingfield of nanotechnology.PAYOFFS FROM INVESTMENTS IN S&TA few developing countries where USAID has invested in large S&Toriented programs (e.g., Thailand, Korea, Brazil) have demonstrated the payoff,particularly in increased labor productivity, from building an effective indigenous S&T infrastructure that enables the countries to use the technologicalachievements of others while gradually realizing the benefits of their own accomBOX 16The International Center forDiarrheal Disease Research inBangladesh was established in1978 with major support fromUSAID. It has had stunning success in developing treatmentsfor these diseases, and its hospital in Dhaka now saves thelives of more than 30 childrenper day while spreading the results of its research and its experience in treating patients totens of millions of childrenthroughout South Asia. The center has been renamed the Center for Health and PopulationResearch, reflecting its expansion to include hospital management, epidemiology, family planning, and child survival.SOURCE: Report of the NRC fieldvisit to Bangladesh, January 2005.THE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 21plishments.4 The adaptation of Western S&T approaches to local circumstanceshas been an important factor in the economic growth of these countries. On amore limited scale, many USAIDsupported projects in a large number of countries with substantial S&T components have had very positive impacts in improving economic and social conditions. At the same time, an important lesson hasbeen the need to encourage development of an innovative private sector (see Box17). Unfortunately, many developing countries, particularly the poor countriesof Africa, do not have the human resources, physical and economic infrastructures, and access to capital to take full advantage of the S&T expertise andachievements of the United States and other industrialized countries.Advances in wind technology are putting this technology within reach of somedeveloping countries. Capital costs are likely to continue to drop over the next fewyears.Improving the energy efficiency of transportation systems has very large economicand environmental implications.Maintaining and upgrading conventional power plants is a challenge facing manydeveloping countries.Developments continue in sophisticated control systems for power transmission anddistribution systems, requiring additional training and maintenance capabilities.Hydrogen technology and fuel cells are of increasing interest in some developingcountries.The integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) is increasingly the technologyof choice for coal utilization. There may be pressure on development assistance to“buy down” capital costs and to provide training in plant operations. IGCC is muchmore complicated to operate and maintain than traditional coal plants.Some countries will export liquefied natural gas. Effective export and liquefactionfacilities can be major S&T challenges.Carbon capture and storage are important for fossil fuel systems throughout theworld. Key issues include capacity to develop the legal and regulatory frameworksas well as to evaluate and monitor activities.Reducing methane emissions from landfills, coal mines, and other fossil fuel sources is increasingly important, requiring technology transfer capabilities in developing countries.Cleaner fuels will continue to be a priority for health as well as environmentalreasons in urban areas throughout the world.TABLE 12 Research and Training Challenges in Energy4See, for example, D. E. Bloom and J. Williamson. Demographic transitions and economic miraclesin emerging Asia. World Bank Economic Review 12(3)(1998):419455.22 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTFor poor countries that cannot sustain a strong S&T infrastructure in theabsence of unrealistically large externalassistance programs, regional and otherapproaches may be appropriate for providing gateways to S&T that can contribute to improved economic and socialprogress. The experiences of the manyregional S&T institutions that have beensupported by USAID and other donorsin recent years should be carefully examined to improve understanding of thecosteffectiveness and political feasibility of such approaches. USAID has extensive experience in twinning American institutions, primarily universities, with counterpart institutions in the poorRenewable energy: Improved solar cells; production and safe storage of hydrogen.Agricultural productivity enhancement: Nanoparticles that deliver nutrients, fertilizers, and herbicides to crops and improve livestock nutrition.Water treatment and remediation: Portable and affordable filters made from nanomaterials; specially coated nanoparticles for chemical and magnetic processesthat remove hazardous pollutants.Disease diagnosis and screening: Handheld technologies for blood diagnosticsand for tests for hormone imbalances and diseases.Drug delivery systems: Hollow capsules and specially coated spheres for drugdelivery; improved shelf life using nanomaterials.Food processing and storage: Improved plastic film coatings; sensors to detectcontamination by pathogens.Air pollution and remediation: Destruction of air pollutants and improvement in theefficiency of catalytic converters.Construction: Less expensive and more durable housing materials, waterresistant asphalt and concrete, and selfcleaning surfaces for public facilities.Health monitoring: Biosensors that continuously track glucose, carbon dioxide,and cholesterol levels.Vector and pest detection and control: Specially targeted pesticides, insecticides,and insect repellents and sensors to detect pests.SOURCE: P. Singer et al. Harnessing nanotechnology to improve global equity. Issues inScience and Technology, University of Texas at Dallas (2005):58.BOX 17There certainly are more privateentities and networks that dealwith S&T issues. A key issue instrengthening S&T capacity indeveloping countries will be howthese can be tapped and howUSAID can assist in these efforts.SOURCE: USAID Colombia, November 2004.TABLE 13 Applications of Nanotechnology Relevant to Developing CountriesTHE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 23countries for periods as long as 20 years; and the importance of this networking indeveloping human capital deserves close examination to help guide efforts toemulate successful programs. In any event, the necessity to examine how S&Tinstitutions can best respond to development requirements and capabilities country by country is clear.A series of recent reports document the conclusions of a number of organizations that effective use of S&T can significantly enhance the development process. These reports include the following:• R. Watson, M. Crawford, and S. Farley. Strategic Approaches to Scienceand Technology in Development, Policy Research Working Paper. Washington,DC: The World Bank, April 2003.• House of Commons. The Use of Science in UK International Development Policy. London: House of Commons Science and Technology Committee,2004.• The InterAcademy Council. Inventing a Better Future, A Strategy forBuilding Worldwide Capacities in Science and Technology. InterAcademy Council: Amsterdam: 2004.• U.N. Millennium Project, Task Force on Science, Technology, and Innovation. Innovation: Applying Knowledge in Development. Earthscan. Sterling,VA: 2005.• Canada’s International Development Research Center. Support to Science, Technology, and Knowledge for Development: A Snapshot of the GlobalLandscape. Canada’s International Development Research Center with the WorldBank and the Rockefeller Foundation, 2005.The reports argue that investments is S&T in developing countries, if appropriately targeted and sustained, can provide substantial benefit to local populations. Quantifying the costbenefit ratio of investments in S&T in developingcountries, however, has not been done in these reports or elsewhere. Studies ofthe impact of foreign assistance projects dependent on engineering skills haveshown positive results. Efforts to correlate investments in basic research witheconomic growth have been plagued by methodological problems that are amplified in developing countries where basic standardofliving improvements areoften the most important outcome of such investments.5 Still, the numerousexamples of the impacts of S&T investments cited in this report and in the reports5See, for example, M. Clemens, S. Radelet, and R. Bhavnari. Counting Chickens When TheyHatch: The Short Term Effect of Aid on Growth. Working Paper No. 44. Washington, DC: Centerfor Global Development, revised Nov. 2004; and A. J. Salter and B. R. Martin. The economicbenefits of publicly funded basic research: A critical review. Research Policy 30(2001):509532.24 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTof others provide authoritative testimonials that carefully designed S&Trelatedprograms can benefit populations in tangible ways.Countries at all levels of development have a strong desire for more robustS&T capabilities. In the first instance, many would like to be able to use theproducts of decades of international research and innovation activity—whetherthe technology is a device to capture wind power, a genetic approach to improveplant resistance to pests, or software to optimize chemical production processes.As to their aspirations for a selfsustaining indigenous capability to develop,adapt, and use modern technologies effectively, the type and extent of an S&Tcapacity that can effectively respond to development challenges vary greatlyamong countries that are recipients of U.S. foreign assistance. But some capability—to understand the potential and limitations of S&T, to select suitable foreigntechnologies, and to develop local innovations—is a continuing need in everycountry.In almost all developing countries, welltrained managers are increasing innumber, and new groups of specialists trained in various S&T disciplines areemerging every year. If deployed within an appropriate political, economic, andorganizational framework, the skills of the managers and specialists can contribute significantly to local efforts to overcome poverty, to promote sustainabledevelopment, and to realize benefits from private investment and expanded global commerce. Too often, however, these specialists are not well integrated intothe priority activities of government and business organizations or do not haveaccess to adequately equipped facilities where they can use their talents. Whentheir human skills are left on the sidelines, a brain drain of top talent may follow.A key to effective use of S&T in developing countries is a longterm commitmentby political and economic leaders of the governments to building and usingtechnological capabilities as cornerstones of development.As previously noted, there are vast differences in the capabilities of the manypoor African countries with only a few trained S&T specialists to use technologies effectively and the technologyskilled middleincome countries whereUSAID has programs. Indeed, in some African countries, significant S&T capacity probably remains decades into the future. Limited capabilities are needednow, however.In sum, S&T capacity on its own will be of little significance in developingcountries. But when effectively integrated into the mainstream of development,S&T can make significant contributions to social and economic progress. Evenin the poorest countries, investments in demanddriven S&T deserve priority.And even in the most advanced developing countries, investments in supplydriven S&T may have limited returns.The importance of technology in development is illustrated in the December2004 conclusions of the National Intelligence Council—an organization reporting to the Director of National Intelligence—after a yearlong set of unclassifiedconsultations on global trends with hundreds of experts throughout the world:THE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 25The gulf between “haves” and “have nots” may widen as the greatest benefits of globalization accrue to countries and groups that can access and adoptnew technologies. Indeed, a nation’s level of technological achievement generally will be defined in terms of its investment in integrating and applying the new,globally available technologies—whether the technologies are acquired througha country’s own basic research or from technology leaders. Nations that remainbehind in adopting technologies arelikely to be those that have failed to pursue policies that support application ofnew technologies—such as good governance, universal education, and marketreforms—and not solely because theyare poor.Those that employ such policies canleapfrog stages of development, skippingover phases that other hightech leaderssuch as the United States and Europe hadto traverse in order to advance. Chinaand India are well positioned to achieve such breakthroughs. Yet, even the poorest countries will be able to leverage prolific, cheap technologies to fuel their owndevelopment—although at a slower rate.6The “bottom line” of this assessment by the National Intelligence Council ishighlighted in Box 18.While there is wide recognition that S&T should be important components ofthe development process for even the poorest countries, the characteristics andextent of S&T capabilities and activities that are appropriate depend on conditions in the specific countries. The accumulated experience of American institutions over many years can help guide on a broad basis the approaches of bothlocal governments and international partners in strengthening important elementsof S&T infrastructures—approaches that usually call for significant adaptation ofAmerican concepts.THE CHANGING GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT ANDAPPROACHES TO FOREIGN ASSISTANCEApproaches to foreign assistance by different bilateral donors and international organizations vary greatly. Many are in a state of change in response tonew global challenges, but several trends relevant to this study are clear.6National Intelligence Council. Mapping the Global Future, Report of the National IntelligenceCouncil’s 2020 Project. Washington, DC: National Intelligence Council, December 2004.BOX 18To adaptive nations go technology’s spoils.SOURCE: U.S. National IntelligenceCouncil. Mapping the Global Future,Report of the National IntelligenceCouncil’s 2020 Project, 2004.26 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT• Global programs rooted in S&T to combat infectious diseases, expandfood supplies, and protect the environment, for example, are growing in numberand size.• Some donors are moving toward providing budgetary support for activities in broadly defined areas of development. However, USAID continues toemphasize support of specific projects with welldefined boundaries and objectives in order to ensure that the agency does not fuel corruption.• Foreign assistance activities are increasingly intertwined with counterterrorism efforts involving a number of national and international institutionsactive in foreign assistance activities, as exemplified by the situation in the Philippines described in Box 19.• Development agencies are giving greater attention to private sector development, which may lead to more emphasis on supporting engineering capacityand less attention to support of public sector research capacity.• Local civil society organizations are playing an increasingly importantrole in the implementation of foreign assistance programs, but few have strongS&T capabilities.• Africa, where many countries are plagued by economic stagnation, hasemerged as a priority geographic area for assistance, as reflected in agreements atthe G8 Summit in Gleneagles, Scotland, in 2005.• The information revolution is having a dramatic effect on the design andimplementation of assistance programs in almost all sectors.Many additional developments are particularly important for USAID, including the following:• While USAID has lost much of its capability to manage largescale nationbuilding programs, it must now recover such capabilities to address highpriority problems in Iraq and Afghanistan and possibly elsewhere, particularly inthe fields of engineering, economics, and political science.• While some developing countries increasingly rely on modern manufacturing, information, and communications technologies to fuel economic development, USAID does not support the transfer of such technologies if they will beused to manufacture products or provide services that compete with products orservices offered by American companies.• USAID’s poverty alleviation efforts seem concentrated in Africa, butsome Asian countries with greater S&T capacities for supporting these efforts,such as Pakistan, deserve continuing support.As the levels of assistance funding continue to increase and as programsexpand in many directions, coordination of activities among the donor governments is increasingly important and complex. Coordination of S&Trelated activities is particularly critical given the limited capabilities of developing countries to assess different approaches that may be advocated by different donors andTHE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 27their international and local partners. In most countries there are a limited numberof adequately trained local collaborators who have both the technical and themanagement skills to direct international programs. In the absence of effectivecoordination, overloading the absorptive capacity of important local collaborators can easily occur with the possibility of wasting resources due to inadequatemanagement attention.Coordination should be carried out within the context of the priorities of thedeveloping countries themselves, and the host governments should be at thecenter of coordination discussions. To the extent possible, these discussionsshould consider all relevant programs of the many international organizations,philanthropic organizations, and nongovernmental organizations involved in providing assistance at the country level. A particularly important challenge forUSAID is to find its appropriate role among the expanding network of dozens offoreign assistance providers.Private financial flows with S&T dimensions are of growing significance;for example, more important than in the past are foreign direct investment bytechnologyoriented companies, remittances to developing countries sent homeby émigrés to support technical education opportunities for family and friends,business and other arrangements between diasporas in industrial countries andcolleagues in their countries of origin, and initiatives by multinational companiestogether with local partners that protect the environment or otherwise benefitlocal populations. Private foundations sometimes support highrisk researchprojects in search of breakthroughs; Table 14 highlights a recent initiative of theBill & Melinda Gates Foundation in addressing critical health problems.The role of publicprivate partnerships in mobilizing financial and technological resources has moved up on the agendas of a number of developmentBOX 19Many of the new directions of the USAID program have been determined bythe strategic context of addressing global terrorism. Since September 11, many ofUSAID’s resources have been directed toward Mindanao in an attempt to addressconflict more comprehensively. This includes decentralizing the healthcare system; reintegrating thousands of rebel soldiers into a peaceful economy; helpinghundreds of communities take control over their forests, fish, and water; and completing the power sector reform. Dealing with so many different problems at onceis clearly a challenge, but finally gives greater recognition to the interrelationship ofpoverty and conflict.SOURCE: Report of field visit to the Philippines, November 2004.28 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTorganizations. Of considerable interest are the activities of the Global AllianceOffice of USAID. This office has sponsored more than 300 publicprivate alliances. Many alliances draw on the technological capabilities of private sectorpartners. Box 110 describes a collaborative effort that USAID considers successful.In 2000 the governments of the world banded together under the UnitedNations umbrella and agreed to address some of the most critical developmentLongTerm Goal to ImproveHealth in the Developing World Associated Grand ChallengesImprove childhood vaccines • Create effective singledose vaccines• Prepare vaccines that do not requirerefrigeration• Develop needlefree vaccine deliverysystemsCreate new vaccines • Devise testing systems for newvaccines• Design antigens for protectiveimmunity• Learn about immunological responseControl insects that transmit • Develop genetic strategy to controlagents of disease insects• Develop chemical strategy to controlinsectsImprove nutrition to promote • Create a nutrientrich staple planthealth seriesImprove drug treatment of • Find drugs and delivery systems toinfectious diseases limit drug resistanceCure latent and chronic infection • Create therapies that can cure latentinfection• Create immunological methods tocure latent infectionMeasure health status accurately • Develop technologies to assessand economically in developing population healthcountries • Develop versatile diagnostic toolsSOURCE: Gates Foundation, August 2005.TABLE 14 The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation’s Grand Challenges toGlobal HealthTHE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 29problems. They identified the following eight Millennium Development Goalsand established targets for meeting these goals:1. Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger;2. Achieve universal primary education;3. Promote gender equality and empower women;4. Reduce child mortality;5. Improve maternal health;6. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases;7. Ensure environmental sustainability; and8. Develop a global partnership for development.Alleviating the most abject manifestations of poverty reflected in these goalsbecame an important objective of many foreign assistance programs. As indicated in Box 111, S&T have been recognized as critical components of efforts tomeet these goals.BOX 110Ugandan university students will receive training in computer networks andhightech manufacturing through a partnership involving USAID, the UgandanGovernment, Cisco Systems, and Electronic Data Systems. Cisco is providing $8million and USAID $2 million to create 10 network academies in the Uganda university system. EDS will provide $4.2 million and USAID $100,000 to train Ugandan students in computerized manufacturing, with the goal of making Uganda ahightech engineering and manufacturing hub in East Africa.SOURCE: USAID website, June 2005.BOX 111To help drive economic development and to enable developing countries toforge solutions to their own problems, a significantly increased global effort is required to support research and development to address the special needs of thepoor in the areas of health, agriculture, natural resources and environmental management, energy, and climate.SOURCE: K. Annan. In Larger Freedom: Towards Development, Security and Human Rightsfor All. New York, NY: UN, March 21, 2005.30 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTThree objectives should continue to be at the top of the list of the internationaldevelopment agenda, namely, reducing poverty; building local capacity to stimulate and support economic and social progress while absorbing the shocks of natural and humaninduced disasters; and enabling developing countries to adjust toglobalization. For countries to achieve success in each of these areas, access to S&Ttogether with the development of human capital can and must play a key role.Without continuing access to some level of S&T, no country will be able to reach alevel of development that fulfills the most basic aspirations of its people.EXPANSION OF ASSISTANCERELATED ACTIVITIESWITHIN THE U.S. GOVERNMENTThe responsibilities of the U.S. government for programs in developingcountries are rapidly expanding and diffusing among 40 departments and agencies, with USAID now financing only about 50 percent of the government’sinternational development programs. The independent Millennium ChallengeCorporation (MCC) has a multibilliondollar development program now directedto 23 countries although it has been slow in launching its initial projects. TheDepartment of State has relatively new responsibilities for programs directed tocombating HIV/AIDS, also with an annual budget in the billions of dollars, andits program is moving forward very quickly. A number of other U.S. departmentsand agencies, international organizations, and private foundations finance directly related activities as indicated in Figure 11.A new office in the Department of State is responsible for planning andcoordinating reconstruction activities following hostilities in countries aroundthe globe. In addition to USAID, the Department of Defense continues to be amajor contributor to reconstruction efforts in wartorn countries and plays acritical role in responding to humanitarian disasters. Many other departments andagencies, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Departmentof Agriculture, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and Department ofEnergy, for example, have expanded the international dimensions of their mission activities that overlap with traditional development activities. A large fraction of these programs have substantial S&T components.USAID’S ROLE IN SUPPORTING S&TWITHIN FOREIGN ASSISTANCEWithin this myriad of expanding activities, USAID has unique and broadlegislative authority for bilateral foreign assistance programs, but its role in carrying out this authority is increasingly determined by congressional earmarks andWhite House initiatives. As indicated in Table 15, many of these special programs are based in large measure on S&T.THE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 31President sEmergencyFund forAIDS ReliefMajorProgramsBased inU.S.U.S.Contributionto GlobalFundUSAIDProgramsNIAID Supportof LocalResearchers &CDCSurveillanceActivitiesGatesFoundationDeveloping Countries LocalContributionsWorld BankandRegionalDevelopmentBanksOtherGovernmentsOtherFoundationsandHumanitarianGroupsPharmaceuticaland MedicalEquipmentCompaniesOtherProgramsFIGURE 11 Organizations involved in combating HIV/AIDS in developing countries.Earmarks and initiatives will undoubtedly continue to play an important role indetermining the priorities for USAID and, indeed, in sustaining important programs.For example, earmarks in human reproduction, child health, and population havehelped to maintain a balance in the overallhealth portfolio increasingly focused onHIV/AIDS. Nevertheless, some earmarksmay be lowpayoff distractions. USAIDshould ensure that all earmarked programsare subjected to external evaluation, alongwith other USAIDsupported programs, toassess whether they are contributing effectively to foreign assistance objectives.When the special interest programs provenot to be costeffective or support only narrow and relatively insignificant objectives,the White House and Congress should beinformed promptly (see Box 112).Since S&T are integral componentsof many foreign assistance activities,BOX 112In carrying out the mandateof a congressional earmark, theNGOs financed by USAID areprimarily concerned with biological conservation and do a reasonable job in that regard. However, there is little thought givento building local capacity. Whenthis does occur, it appears to beincidental to other objectives.SOURCE: Report of the NRC fieldvisit to Central America, January2005.32Examples of USAID Earmarks(2005 appropriations in millions of dollars) Presidential Initiatives Administration Initiatives• $194 trade capacity building • African Education Initiative • Broader Middle East and NorthAfrica Initiative• $300 basic education • AntiTrafficking in Persons• Initiative to End Hunger in Africa• $200 microenterprise development • Centers for Excellence in TeacherTraining • Middle East Partnership Initiative• $165 biodiversity programs• Digital Freedom Initiative • Trade for African Development• $100 drinking water supply and Enterprise• Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief• $180 clean energy and other climate changepolicies and programs • Initiative Against Illegal Logging• $1 International Real Property Foundation • Volunteers for Prosperity• $4 International Fertilizer Development CenterTABLE 15 Examples of Earmarks and Special InitiativesSOURCE: USAID, May 2005.THE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 33consideration of USAID’s efforts to draw on the nation’s S&T capabilities incarrying out its programs must begin with consideration of USAID’s broader rolein foreign assistance. To this end, the committee considered the three models setforth below that could define USAID’s role during the next few years, particularly with regard to development assistance. The committee recognized that programs to provide humanitarian assistance, disaster relief, and reconstruction inwartorn regions might require somewhat different models that emphasize greaterflexibility and more rapid deployment.1. USAID could focus narrowly on several development issues—perhapshealth, agriculture, and education—and develop strong internal expertise and awide range of specialized external resources required to assist host governmentsdevelop the capability to design, implement, and manage all aspects of development interventions in these fields.2. USAID could return to its role of decades past as a provider of S&Tsupport across the multiple dimensions of foreign assistance that are likely to berequired by lowincome countries. It would support a wide array of longtermprograms to build institutional capacity in developing countries, relying on greatlyexpanded internal technical staff capabilities to provide leadership in definingand implementing institutional development programs in many fields.3. USAID could continue its current course of being a program managementagency, responding to problems that emerge in many fields of interest to thedeveloping countries, the Congress, and the Administration. It would use a combination of internal staffs of directhire specialists, assignees from other U.S.agencies, and contractor personnel to develop strategies and manage programsthat are implemented by USAID’s partners.In considering these options, the committee took into account:• The organizational structure and programs currently in place and the likelihood they will continue throughout this Administration;• The earmarks and White House initiatives that range over many topics asnoted above;• The steady decline in USAID’s internal technical capabilities and theceilings on directhire staff and other personnel embedded in the agency;• The recent decline in longterm institutionbuilding programs financed bythe agency; and• The unique capabilities of USAID to provide field perspectives on development issues.In addition, the decisions of the Administration to establish an independentMCC and to assign major responsibilities for HIV/AIDS to the Department ofState rather than entrusting these two initiatives to USAID have eroded the34 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTagency’s stature as the nation’s preeminent foreign assistance provider, therebycomplicating recruitment and retention of highquality foreign assistance practitioners with S&T expertise.The committee believes that a modification of the third option is the mostrealistic vision during the next several years for improving USAID’s capabilitiesto contribute to the nation’s foreign assistance effort while drawing on appropriate S&T resources in achieving its goal. USAID will, of course, continue tofollow the decisions of the Administration and Congress to support programactivities in many fields within USAID’s established program framework ofgovernance and humanitarian assistance, reconstruction in wartorn areas, globalhealth, and broadly defined economic growth. However, the agency should to theextent possible select a few niche areas within this framework where it couldconcentrate resources and be an international leader as it has become in its support for democratic governance. Criteria for selecting areas of emphasis shouldinclude (1) high levels of developing country interest, (2) opportunities to havesignificant impacts on development, (3) relevance of USAID’s unique field experience, and (4) limited interest of other U.S. departments and agencies in providing substantial financial support for activities in the area.Programs in some or all of the areas will undoubtedly require substantialS&T inputs. One example of a possible area of emphasis is health deliverysystems, an area the committee strongly supports. Other examples the committeebelieves should be considered are small innovative firms, natural resource management, agriculture extension, and information technology. Each of these areasreflects the criteria set forth above. The program emphasis within each niche areashould be institution building, including establishment of research, education,training, and service capabilities. This report calls for support of schools of publichealth to do just that, as discussed in Chapter 3.In order to continue to support its current portfolio of programs as well asnew activities in the areas of emphasis, USAID needs stronger inhouse technicalstaff capabilities. As recommended in Chapter 4, the agency should recruit anadequate number of technically trained directhire employees to lead the designand evaluation of institution building and innovative activities, particularly in thespecific areas selected.Within USAID’s missions, the capabilities of personnel to identify opportunities for innovation and to hold their own in technical discussions with highly trainedprofessionals from host countries and other donors have also eroded and needstrengthening. Of special importance is a capability within the USAID missions tounderstand the development potential and limitations of programs of other U.S.departments and agencies and to provide these organizations with field perspectives that will increase their contributions to social and economic development.THE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 35WORKING BOTH AT THE FRONTIERS AND INTHE MAINSTREAM OF S&TUSAID has recorded many successes in facilitating the use of S&T to overcome obstacles to development; for example, wheatrice rotation schemes havedramatically increased agriculture production in Bangladesh. The developmentof a policy framework for energy networks has brought electrical power to thousands of remote villages in South Africa. In Namibia a USAID partnership withMicrosoft and Compaq has developed effective egovernment services and hasenhanced civil participation in parliamentary affairs.Biotechnology, nanotechnology, electronic technology, and other technological areas may be opening new vistas to improve life in poor countries. USAIDshould be fully aware of the potential and limitations of such technologies. Evenmore importantly, USAID should have a strong capability to draw on manyproven technologies in ensuring that its investments in international developmenthave the largest possible returns.S&T sensitivity throughout the agency can have significant payoffs. Uptodate awareness of S&T development is increasingly important in both stimulating and coordinating innovative activities not only within the U.S. governmentbut also in partnership with foreign donors, multinational corporations, and international NGOs.The effects of the erosion ofUSAID’s technical capacity during thepast two decades are evident in Washington and in the field. USAID is increasingly viewed as simply a mechanism topass through funds to other organizationsas reflected in Box 113. Its competenceas an agency steeped in development realities but staying abreast of rapidly advancing technological opportunities isdoubted by other U.S. departments andagencies in spite of its long history as anintellectual leader in many successful development enterprises. This characterization of USAID needs to be changed, and astrengthened S&T orientation within the agency will go a long way toward enhancing the agency’s role and credibility as a leader in international development whileimproving the effectiveness of U.S.supported programs.This chapter has highlighted the potential contributions to international development of modern technologies. Some of these technologies may be withinthe grasp of developing countries. Others may be only longterm targets for poornations, but there are also simple innovations that can be used effectively even inBOX 113At the interagency meetingon developing an early warningsystem for future tsunamis allthat other agencies wanted fromUSAID was money to enablethem to buy hardware for theirsatellite and related systems.SOURCE: Personal communicationto committee staff from a senior USAID official, May 2005.36 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTthe poorest countries (e.g., pedal drivenground water pumps, plastic bottles thatmeasure and contain the correct amountof bleach needed to destroy bacteria indispensers of drinking water, and concrete towers supporting electronic connections for transmitting signals of mobile telephones). As USAID intensifiesits efforts to enhance the capabilities ofdeveloping countries to use more advanced technologies, the agency mustnot neglect the incremental improvements that can be realized through wideruse of technologies that have been available for many years.The importance of USAID’s field experience in helping to ensure that U.S.assistance efforts involving S&T are sound and have impact cannot be overstated. A report from USAID Kosovo, highlighted in Box 114, underscores thisexperience.CAN A STRONG SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PRESENCE BESUSTAINED WITHIN USAID?A fundamental tension has existed in the U.S. foreign assistance programsince its inception, taking on increasingly virulent expression as budget pressuresincreased in the postVietnam era. The basic division has been between constituencies that embrace basic human needs, or bottomup development, versus otherconstituencies that focus on technology transfer, stimulation of economic growth,and diffusion of benefits to the general population from innovative nodes in theeconomy and society. The 1960s and the 1970s saw tremendous swings from thelatter to the former, setting the stage for another swing of the pendulum back tothe latter as a result of disappointments with the results of diffuse grassrootsinvestments of the 1970s.In the early 1980s the USAID leadership embraced S&T as essential driversof development while recognizing many other benefits to the United States fromexpanded cooperation in S&T. In the wake of the Green Revolution and theemerging technological achievements of the Asian tigers (Taiwan, Korea,Singapore, and Hong Kong), USAID was restructured and the recruitment oftechnically trained development practitioners expanded. A rapidly expandingbudget between 1981 and 1986 facilitated an approach that could increase S&Tactivities substantially while still maintaining traditional U.S. leadership in childsurvival, nutrition, food aid, and other household interventions.As might be predicted, less than a decade later, a new USAID leadership inthe 1990s was determined to change directions and support a new variant of theBOX 114I can’t tell you the number oftimes our counterparts (andbeneficiaries) have said that asmuch as they welcome our funding, they would welcome evenmore our ability to engage ontechnical matters.USAID Kosovo, Dec. 2004.THE CHANGING CONTEXT FOR FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 37grassroots approach. In the face of substantial budgetary cutbacks wherein bothapproaches could not be supported simultaneously, S&T capabilities rapidly declined. S&T proponents within and outside USAID, particularly landgrant universities, had simply not produced sufficient evidence in a decade to balance theclaims of the basichumanneeds constituencies (with evershortening time horizons) that longterm investments in S&T were not justifiable. In short, in theview of many, USAID’s S&T activities in the 1980s and their subsequent demisereaffirmed the fundamental split between the development groups in Washingtonand among larger political constituencies.As we enter the twentyfirst century, it will be difficult to persuade someforeign assistance constituencies that an approach that highlights the role of S&Tin USAID programs is warranted. There are, however, constituencies that recognize that even the poor countries want to reap benefits from globalization, andthey recognize that S&T must play an important role. We are clearly in anotherera of robust resources that are available for foreign assistance. With nearly $20billion annually in the foreign operations budget category alone, there shouldnow be an opportunity for a revitalized S&T effort aimed at longterm economicgrowth while still maintaining support for grassroots and good governance programs. Stronger health systems and expanded information dissemination capabilities should become core concerns of the very constituencies that have beenreluctant to embrace S&T as a priority.As globalization of problems, institutions, and solutions moves forward, theneed for S&T capabilities tethered to activities in all development sectors isgreater than ever. Thus, S&T must become integrated into the U.S. government’spresence abroad on a wide front, and concretely into USAID’s activities. Theentire foreign assistance establishment must recognize S&T achievements ascrucial enablers of development and not simply as endpoints. Just as governancehas become a significant overarching rationale for much of America’s globalpresence, so S&T must be recognized as an essential platform for transformingaspirations for better lives into durable and practical reality. Only then will thesustainability of a strong S&T component within USAID be assured.39The committee, in consultation with senior officials at USAID, has chosen fivechallenges to illustrate the importance of S&T in enhancing internationaldevelopment and to suggest ways for USAID to draw on U.S. expertise andexperience.1. Improve child health and child survival;2. Expand access to drinking water and sanitation;3. Support agricultural research to help reduce hunger and poverty;4. Promote microeconomic reforms to stimulate private sector growth andtechnological innovation; and5. Prevent and respond to natural disasters.In each of these areas USAID has active programs spanning a number ofyears. In most instances these programs depend on the application of findingsfrom the natural and physical sciences and the use of information generated bythe social sciences to help ensure effective program implementation.CHILD HEALTH AND CHILD SURVIVALApproximately 11 million children under age five die each year, primarily indeveloping countries. Of these, some four million die in the first month of life.About 75 percent of the childhood deaths are the result of pneumonia, diarrhealdiseases, malaria, neonatal pneumonia or sepsis, preterm delivery, or asphyxia at2Five Development ChallengesThe Importance of Science and Technology40 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTbirth. These problems are exacerbated by malnutrition and the lack of safe waterand sanitation.1Many of these deaths could be avoided with simple interventions, such asbreast feeding, oral rehydration therapy, and immunizations. World leaders haveagreed that one of the Millennium Development Goals, discussed in Chapter 1,should address this problem: “Reduce by twothirds, between 1990 and 2015, theunderfive mortality rate.”History of USAID InvolvementUSAID’s child survival agenda has been particularly active since 1985, whenCongress enacted the Child Survival Program. The initial program focused ongrowth monitoring, immunizations, and birth spacing. The program has addednew elements in response to the increased understanding of the causes of childmortality and the development of new and proven health interventions. Since thattime, USAID has obligated more than $2.5 billion to child survival programs formaternal and child immunization; prevention and treatment of respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, and malaria; breastfeeding; and nutrition and micronutrient supplementation. In addition, it has provided limited funding for cleanwater and sanitation, important complements to public health interventions. Annual obligations for child survival and maternal health programs have averagedabout $330 million since 2001. For fiscal year 2006 the appropriation is $360million.Major Accomplishments of USAID and theWider International Health CommunityHealth interventions based in large measure on science and technology led to a50 percent reduction in mortality for children under five years old between 1960and 2000. In 1960 one in five children died before age five. By 2002 this ratio hadfallen to one in twelve. However, there are significant regional and local disparities;for example, in SubSaharan Africa, 175 in 1,000 children die as compared to 92 in1,000 in South Asia, or 7 in 1,000 in the industrialized countries.2 The rates ofdecline seen in the last four decades have leveled off and, in fact, mortality rates insome SubSaharan Africa countries have risen between 2000 and 2002.Malaria remains an important cause of childhood deaths in SubSaharanAfrica. The announcement of a new Administration initiative on malaria commit1J. Bryce, C. BoschiPinto, K. Shihuya, and R. E. Black. WHO estimates of the causes of death inchildren. Lancet 365(9465)(2005): 11471152.2UNICEF. The State of the World’s Children 2005: Childhood under Threat. New York, NY:UNICEF, December 2004.FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 41ting $1.2 billion over five years for prevention and treatment is an importantresponse to the problem. In October 2005, the Gates Foundation announced newgrants of $260 million for development of a malaria vaccine, new drugs, andmosquito control methods.Not only can reducing child mortality save lives, it can also help motivateparents in poor countries to limit the size of their families as they recognize theincreased likelihood of their children surviving to care for them in old age.USAID has been a leader in supporting greater access to voluntary family planning services. The combination of increased child survival and greater access tofamily planning has slowed population increases, with fertility rates, the averagenumber of children per woman, declining from an average of 4.97 in the period19601965 to 2.79 in the period 19952000.The decline in child mortality rates was accomplished largely by the use ofsimple, lowcost treatment and prevention tools—breast feeding; immunizationsfor protection against diphtheria, pertussis, and tetanus; oral rehydration therapies; and micronutrient supplements, such as vitamin A.3 USAID has played animportant role in developing and promoting many of these and other lifesavinginterventions and technologies to prevent and treat childhood diseases. Mostexperts also cite the virtual elimination of polio as another major accomplishment. Recent reports suggest, however, that new strains, originally identified inNigeria, have led to outbreaks in Niger and in 12 previously poliofree countries.These new outbreaks demonstrate the need for continued vigilance and surveillance, not onetime solutions, in dealing with public health issues.Continuing ChallengesUSAID and the international health community have made significantprogress in reducing levels of child mortality, but progress has been difficult tosustain. A more integrated approach to child health is necessary, rather than thediseasespecific interventions now being used by many international health agencies, including USAID. In addition, more attention should be given to strengthening local health systems—the healthcare delivery mechanisms and healthcareworkers responsible for transferring the results of new scientific discoveries andtechnologies into improved health outcomes. The situation is particularly severein SubSaharan Africa, where healthcare systems have been battered by the effects of HIV/AIDS. Many of these systems have lost healthcare workers to AIDS;and the demand on existing workers to provide treatment and palliative care forAIDS patients has diverted attention from primary healthcare needs, includingthe needs of children and pregnant women.3USAID. Report to Congress: Child Survival and Health Programs Fund Progress Report (FY2004). Washington, DC: USAID, 2005.42 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTContinued implementation of proven approaches to the prevention of childhood diseases and to prenatal and neonatal health services is essential. For example, more than 30 percent of the world’s children have not received basicimmunizations against the six common childhood diseases. Currently more than500,000 women worldwide die each year from complications of pregnancy andchildbirth. More than 4 million newborns die and 4 million more are stillborneach year across the globe. Ninetynine percent of these deaths occur in developing countries. In response, USAID has embarked on a major new maternal andnewbornhealth initiative. The program builds on its activities in neonatal health,prevention of hemorrhaging in childbirth, and other birthrelated complications.USAID’s past investments in health research, in particular those focused onreducing child mortality, have led to important improvements in public health.However, the advent of major new sources of research funding and the expansionof a number of research centers to include a focus on diseases typically found indeveloping countries require USAID to reexamine where its limited resources canbe used most effectively. The agency’s extensive experience in assessing localhealth conditions and in adapting health interventions to local social and culturalconditions, and its strong relations with local government agencies and researchorganizations, suggest that its resources should be focused primarily on helping toidentify and prioritize local health needs. USAID should also support the adaptation, field testing, and implementation of improved health interventions, whileassisting in strengthening local health systems as discussed in Chapter 3.USAID has collaborated in numerous research efforts on vaccines for malaria, Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib), rotavirus, and Streptococcuspneumoniae with other federal agencies, WHO, private pharmaceutical companies, and international research organizations. Much work has been in progressfor many years. The National Institutes of Health and major foundations, such asthe Gates Foundation, have begun providing significant support for vaccine development, and USAID has scaled back its research accordingly.SAFE WATERMore than one billion people do not have access to adequate supplies ofclean, safe water. More than 2.5 billion people, representing about 40 percent ofthe world’s population, are without appropriate sanitation.4 As a result, almost4,000 children die every day.5 Many more become ill from waterborne diseases,including cholera, typhoid, schistosomiasis, and diarrheal diseases.4WHO/UNICEF. Meeting the MDG Drinking Water and Sanitation Target: A Midterm Assessment of Progress. New York, NY: WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supplyand Sanitation, 2004.5J. Bartram, K. Lewis, R. Lenton, and A. Wright. Focusing on Improved Water and Sanitation forHealth. Lancet 365(2005):810.43Water SanitationPopulation (Millions)Latin America & Caribbean SubSaharan AfricaNorthern Africa Developed RegionsEurasia OceaniaWestern Asia SouthEastern AsiaSouth Asia Eastern Asia11 212323 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 788 991010457 89 1060900,000800,000700,000600,000500,000400,000300,000200,000100,0001,000,000FIGURE 21 Population without improved water sources or sanitation by region, 2002.SOURCE: “Water Supply and Sanitation Monitoring.” World Health Organization. http://who.intwater_sanitation health/monitoring/mp04_3pdf.44 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTAs seen in Figure 21, access to clean water varies dramatically. Less than 60percent of the population in SubSaharan Africa has access to improved drinkingwater sources6 compared to almost 90 percent in Latin America and the Caribbeanand almost 100 percent in industrialized countries. Improving access to water andsanitation often depends on the deployment of conventional engineering technologies, but in other cases less costly, innovative technologies can be used, such aspointofuse treatment and storage systems, membrane technologies, householdwater treatment, and dry sanitation and ecological sanitation systems.Progress to DateBetween 1990 and 2002 more than 1.1 billion people gained access to safewater, with the greatest progress in South Asia. Despite substantial gains incoverage that averaged 90 million people a year, the number of people withoutaccess to safe water has declined by only 10 million because of populationgrowth.During the same period, worldwide sanitation coverage increased from 49percent to 58 percent of the world’s population. However, less than 50 percent ofthe people living in developing countries currently have access to rudimentarysanitation. The situation is particularly severe in the informal settlements aroundurban areas where untreated human wastes contaminate water supplies and theenvironment.At the Millennium Summit in 2000, world leaders pledged to cut the proportion of people without safe drinking water by half by 2015. At the World Summiton Sustainable Development in 2002, leaders also agreed to reduce by half theproportion without access to adequate sanitation by 2015. International aid forwater supply and sanitation approached $7 billion over a recent fiveyear period,as seen in Figure 22.History of USAID InvolvementUSAID has supported drinking water and sanitation projects for more thanthree decades.7 In the 1990s there was increasing emphasis on drinking waterprojects that could contribute to the agency’s child survival programs. The agencyalso carried out and continues to carry out complementary projects on watershedmanagement, coastal zone management, and industrial pollution control, all ofwhich affect water availability and water quality. The effectiveness of these6Improved drinking water sources—household connections, public standpipes, boreholes, protected dug wells, and protected spring and rainwater collection systems. Unimproved sources—unprotected wells and springs, rivers and ponds, vendorprovided water, and tanker truck water.7USAID. Towards a Water Secure Future: USAID’s Obligations in Integrated Water ResourcesManagement for FY 2000. Washington, DC: USAID, 2001.FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 45projects depends on having strong internal technical staff trained in engineering,hydrology, ecology, and related areas that can develop program interventions,select appropriate contractors, and monitor program implementation.USAID obligations for water supply, sanitation, and wastewater management were about $220 million in 2000. Of this, threequarters was spent onprojects in Egypt, the West Bank, Gaza, and Jordan. Of the $80 million obligatedfor drinking water supply, only $1.4 million went to support projects in Africa,8the region with the greatest need.At the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development, the Administrationannounced a major new initiative, “Water for the Poor,” to support the Millennium Development Goal of increasing access to water and sanitation. In 2005USAID reported on the “success” of the initiative by noting that over 9.5 millionpeople now have better access to water and 11.5 million people have access toadequate sanitation because of the initiative, which has provided $970 million inover 70 countries.9 The geographic pattern of USAID obligations for water and05001000150020002500US dollars (millions)U.S. JapanGermany U.K.France Other Bilateral DonorsEuropean Community World BankOther Multilateral Organizations1122337 85 6944 5 678 9FIGURE 22 Average annual aid for water supply and sanitation by donor, 19962001.SOURCE: Gleick, Peter H. “The Millennium Development Goals for Water. http://www.pacinst.org/topics/water_and_sustainability/global_water_crisis/8Ibid, p. 5.9USAID. USAID Expands Access to Clean Water with Innovative Programs. Press Release.Washington, DC: USAID, March 23, 2005.46 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTsanitation, however, is not much different today than before the summit. In 2005USAID reported plans to obligate about $7.7 million for drinking water projectsin Africa, with an estimated $111 million for worldwide efforts. The total figure,no doubt, is a low estimate since it does not take into account any supplementalfunds earmarked for restoration and reconstruction of drinking water and sanitation facilities in Afghanistan and Iraq.10For more than 20 years the agency provided funds for a series of environmental health activities, including water and sanitation. The last of these programs, the Environmental Health Program (EHP), terminated in the fall of 2004and was replaced by the Hygiene Improvement Project. One element of the EHPfocused on providing environmental services—drinking water, sanitation, andwaste collection—to residents of urban slum communities in India. Thecommittee’s panel that visited India was impressed with the capabilities of theIndian staff on the project and the technical backstopping provided by the USAIDmission. The program seems to have been quite effective and could be a modelfor other programs to address the needs of slum dwellers. An important elementwas its focus on disseminating results and in providing information, includingassessments of alternative household water treatment technologies, to NGOs andother organizations concerned with environmental health.USAID continues to provide substantial funding for the provision of drinkingwater and sanitation facilities in response to natural disasters. The response to theSouth Asian tsunami is the most recent example. In this case a new water treatmentfacility was put into operation in Banda Aceh within six weeks of the disaster. Theplant produces over 400,000 liters of drinking water a day, which is being distributed to thousands of people, many in refugee camps. The quality of the water isreportedly equivalent to bottled water, exceeding EPA and WHO standards.Following Hurricane Mitch in Central America, USAID asked EPA to helpwith rehabilitation of drinking water treatment facilities. The program focused onenhancing the technical capacity of the water utilities and ministries of health. Itincluded strengthening laboratory capacity, improving water treatment plants, enhancing source water protection, and training for staff responsible for managingdrinking water programs. An evaluation of the program suggested that a number ofshortterm goals were achieved, but a longerterm effort is needed to integratesource water protection and safe drinking water components into existing localwater quality programs. This longerterm view is clearly critical to ensuring anexpanded availability and access to water as well as sanitation. The evaluation alsohighlighted the need for strong local regulatory frameworks and improvements inlocal technical skills. Again, both issues require longterm investments.10USAID. USAID Investments in Drinking Water Supply Projects and Related Activities in 2005,A Report to the U.S. House and Senate Appropriations Committees. Washington, DC: USAID,March 2005.FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 47Challenges and Opportunities for USAIDUSAID has a very limited staff—less than a halfdozen personnel—with thetechnical skills to support its water and sanitation programs. The agency relies toa great extent on major U.S. engineering firms to design and manage its largescale programs in the Middle East, including those in Iraq and Afghanistan. Withlittle technical field staff, the agency’s detailed knowledge of progress (and problems) on the ground is limited.In Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, USAID has drawn on theskills of EPA to upgrade water treatment plants. It has also had an effectivepartnership with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to create innovative pointofuse treatment technology to provide safe water for household use. Inaddition, the agency created a partnership through the Global Development Alliance with Proctor and Gamble to develop another pointofuse treatment technology. These relatively inexpensive technologies provide safe water in the absenceof local largescale drinking water treatment plants.Important members of Congress support an expansion of USAID’s waterand sanitation efforts. A number of advocacy groups are also encouraging Congress to earmark more substantial funding for these activities. The fiscal year2006 appropriation includes an earmark of $200 million for drinking water supply projects and related activities. The Senator Paul Simon Water for the PoorAct of 2005 mandates access to safe water and sanitation as a policy objective ofU.S. foreign assistance.11 Highly visible water projects will continue to be a focusof congressional attention and should foster goodwill abroad.USAID will undoubtedly continue to invest in water and sanitation facilities,with most of its funding directed to largescale reconstruction and upgradingefforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Access to drinking water and sanitation in othercountries to complement health interventions and to support the MillenniumDevelopment Goals will also continue to interest Congress. USAID needs adequate technical staff both in the field and in headquarters to oversee theseprograms and to assess the numerous innovative technologies now available—forproviding both drinking water and sanitation services—that can be matched tolocal needs, financial resources, and cultural sensitivities.AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH TO REDUCEHUNGER AND POVERTYFor many countries, agriculture is the foundation for development. In developing countries agriculture contributes about 25 percent of the gross nationalproduct and employs about 55 percent of the labor force. Agriculture contributesto economic growth by providing food and raw materials, generating foreign11H.R. 1973, Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act of 2005.48 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTexchange, and creating jobs on the farms and in processing and distribution.During the last 30 years, dramatic increases in agricultural productivity, largelyas a result of the introduction of new varieties of rice and wheat, have expandedworld food supplies. Despite these increases, however, food supplies in manyparts of the developing world are inadequate.The Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that in 2002 over 850million people worldwide had inadequate food supplies.12 Although this represents a slight decrease since 1996, it is far short of the goal set at the World FoodSummit, where commitments were made to reduce the number of malnourishedto 400 million by 2015. The problem is most serious in SubSaharan Africawhere an estimated 33 percent of the population remains undernourished, just 1percent less than in the period 19691971. By contrast, the percent of the population that was undernourished in East and South Asia declined from 43 percent ofthe population to 10 percent during the same period.With expected increases in world population growth over the next half century, global food supplies must double to produce enough to meet the demand.Onehalf of the projected increase in demand comes from population growth,which is estimated to reach 9 billion, and the other onehalf from income growth.An estimated 75 percent of the very poor live in rural areas and depend onagriculture and natural resources for their livelihoods. Longterm reduction inpoverty and prospects for sustained economic growth will depend on improvements in the productivity of rural areas. These improvements will depend on thedevelopment and application of new agricultural technologies, including thosebased on biotechnology, improved pest management, and better natural resourcemanagement.History of USAID InvolvementUSAID and its predecessor agencies have supported agriculture since the1950s, initially emphasizing the transfer of U.S. agricultural technologies to poorcountries, using U.S. agriculture extension services as a model. However, manyU.S. technologies were not appropriate to the local needs of developing countries. In the 1960s and 1970s, USAID, other donors, and private foundationsbegan to fund the development of more appropriate technologies and strategies.With initial support from the Ford Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation, the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)was established in 1971.13 As of 2005 CGIAR supported 15 research centers.12Food and Agriculture Organization. Assessment of the World Food Security Situation. FAOCommittee on World Food Security. 31st session. May 2326, 2005. Available at http://www.fao.org/docrep/meeting/009/J4968e/j4968e00.htm. Date accessed June 22, 2005.13See http://www.cgiar.org/.FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 49Over the years it has received $5.5 billion from the international community. TheUnited States has been one of the largest donors, contributing almost $50 millionat its highest annual level in 1986 and about $26 million in 2005.In 1975 new provisions were added to the Foreign Assistance Act to provideprogram support for longterm collaborative U.S. university research on foodproduction and distribution, storage, marketing, and consumption and for creation of the Board on International Food and Agricultural Development (BIFAD).The programs were designed to take account of the value of such programs bothto U.S. agriculture and to developing nations. The universitybased activitiessubsequently became known as the Collaborative Research Support Program(CRSP).Currently, nine CRSP programs are funded through grants and cooperativeagreements. Eight universities serve as management entities, with many additional universities participating. Leading American agricultural scientists recognize the importance of working on problems confronting the developing countries in order to broaden their scientific horizons. Many scientists are interested inparticipating even if they are reimbursed only for travel expenses. At the sametime, the CRSP program should be driven by the interests and needs of thedeveloping countries with the American specialists supporting these interests.During the 1970s and 1980s, USAID also expanded support for nationalagricultural research systems. However, since the late 1980s funding for localresearch institutions has declined dramatically. Total USAID funding for agriculture has fallen from over $2 billion in 1985 to $400 million in 2003, and thecurrent fiscal year 2006 budget request shows only $316 million in developmentassistance funding for all agriculture and environment activities,14 as seen inFigure 23. The focus has changed from programs designed to improve smallholder incomes to increased production and processing of agricultural crops forexport markets and to biodiversity conservation and management of protectedareas. This decline is surprising given USAID’s long history of successful agriculture programs.The reductions in USAID support for agricultural research has paralleledreductions by other donors. Total support for the CGIAR system declined almost2 percent a year between 1992 and 2001, and contributions are increasinglyrestricted to special interest programs. A longterm view of funding for agricultural research by USAID is given in Figure 24.In summary, overall donor support for all agricultural programs in developing countries reached a high of about $9 billion annually in the early 1980s (at1999 prices), falling to less than $5 billion in 1997 and under $4 billion in 2001.14Fiscal year 2006 Sectors and Programs of Special Interest, excluding climate change activities.50 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTThe share of agriculture in overall aid budgets worldwide is now about 6 percent,considerably less than the 17 percent share reached in the early 1980s.15The Millennium Challenge Corporation also offers a source of funding foragriculturerelated projects and the initial compacts have included funding forirrigation, land tenure, agribusiness development, and general rural development.Furthermore, funding from the World Bank for agriculture has more than doubledin the last five years.In part, the general decline in funding for agriculture may have resulted fromincreases in world food stocks and low prices in many parts of the world. Theagricultural research that focused on germplasm improvement has been unpopularin some key donor countries,16 and there has been an increasing level of concernexpressed about the potential environmental effects of changes in farming systemsaccompanying the Green Revolution. Some of these concerns relate to loss of localcontrol over farming systems, control that is viewed to be integral to culturalintegrity. Other concerns relate to the potential for loss of control of agriculture tocommercial interests, such as multinational seed and fertilizer companies. Theissue of loss of genetic diversity and control over indigenous germplasm and related intellectual property is another issue frequently cited. The decline may alsoreflect increasing concerns in the United States and elsewhere of increased international competition from agricultural exports of developing countries.Challenges for the International Donor CommunityContinued investments in agricultural R&D are critical if world food supplies are to increase and prospects for reducing rural poverty are to improve. Theglobal landscape for agricultural R&D has changed dramatically in the last twodecades. Increasing globalization has resulted in substantial increases in trade inagricultural commodities as well as the internationalization of agricultural research. The types of institutions conducting agricultural R&D, the sources andlevels of funding, and the kinds of research, technologies, and delivery systemsneeded now are significantly different than in the 1960s, when the internationaldevelopment community began to focus on agricultural S&T.At the same time that the international donor community reduced its fundingfor agricultural R&D, most developing countries also reduced their support foragricultural research; for example, in Bangladesh, the Minister of Agriculturereported that the budget had declined from 22 percent to less than 3 percent of thenational budget. In Mali, government funding for the agricultural research system15Aid to Agriculture, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, DevelopmentAssistance Committee, Paris, December 2001.16World Bank. OED Precis, The CGIAR at 31: Celebrating Its Achievements, Facing Its Challenges. Washington, DC: World Bank, Spring 2003.FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 510204060801001970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2004YearUS$ Millions*GlobalNear EastLatin Americanand CaribbeanEuropeAsiaAfrica*Figures in 2004 US$01002003004001970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2004YearUS$ Millions*GlobalNear EastLACEuropeAsiaAfrica*Figures in 2004 US$FIGURE 24 Estimated funding for agricultural research by USAID bureaus.SOURCE: Estimates provided by Gary Alex, USAID.FIGURE 23 Estimated funding for agriculture education institutions by USAID bureau.SOURCE: Estimates provided by Gary Alex, USAID.52 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENThas been slashed; and a 10year hiring freeze has been imposed within the Ministry of Agriculture.Despite international commitments for reducing hunger, programs of manydonors in the agricultural sector, including USAID, stress exports over growingof basic food crops. In Mali, for example, scant attention is paid to drylandsmallholder farming of millet and sorghum. Rather, communities with rice orcotton potential receive the most attention. But 90 percent of the populationdepends on dryland agriculture. This development is dismaying, given the linkbetween hunger and agriculture.Finally, USAID has been at the forefront of gender issues in agriculture.Women participate in the selection and cultivation of crops. They are marketersof agricultural products throughout Africa and in much of Latin America. Theyplay an important role in using their income to improve health and sanitaryconditions at the grassroots level.Unique Challenges and Opportunities for USAIDAs noted above, the level of USAID funding for agriculture, and particularlyfor agricultural research in developing country institutions, has declined substantially in recent years. At the same time, Congressional directives and earmarkshave required the agency to maintain its levels of support for a number of activities, such as the CRSP programs ($28 million) and the International FertilizerDevelopment Center ($2 million). These earmarks combined with declining overall budgets for agriculture restrict the agency’s ability to respond effectively tonew opportunities; for example, there is growing recognition of the use of highvalue horticultural crops in development programs. They provide essential micronutrients, they can be produced in relatively small areas, and they are a sourceof income for rural families. Conventional breeding and genomics are providingnew varieties of vegetables and fruits with disease and insect resistance, improved nutrition, and adaptability. All of these developments are of great interestto developing nations.The increased emphasis on shortterm results has also made it difficult toprovide some of the types of assistance most needed—strengthening local andregional research centers, training local scientific and technical personnel to focus on local agricultural problems, and providing extension services to farmersand others who are involved in the production, processing, and marketing ofagricultural products.In July 2004 the agency released a new agriculture strategy “Linking Producers to Markets,” which focuses on the following major objectives:• Expand trade opportunities and improve the trade capacity of producersand rural industries;FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 53• Improve the social, economic, and environmental sustainability of agriculture;• Mobilize science and technology and foster a capacity for innovation; and• Strengthen agricultural training and education, outreach, and adaptiveresearch.The emphasis in the strategy on the role of S&T is welcome, particularlythe discussion of the increasing importance of biotechnology and informationand communications technologies in increasing agricultural productivity andmarketing.17The agency’s staff with technical expertise in agriculture has declined significantly from 185 agricultural scientists and agricultural economists in 1985 to48 in 2005.18 As a result, mission backstopping, interactions with technical counterparts at the local level, and collaboration with important U.S.based expertshave been increasingly left to contractors. While contractors have many strengths,they often do not have the longterm commitment to the largerscale agencyobjectives.University partnerships, long the basis for USAID’s agricultural efforts, havesuffered as a result of a new emphasis on shortterm results, the decline in longterm training and other capacitybuilding efforts, and the lack of effective interlocutors from USAID.Many of the existing institutional arrangements for the provision of agricultural science and technology in developing countries have been effective, butthese mechanisms should be reassessed as to their ability to meet current needs.USAID’s own internal reviews of the CRSP system, in fact, have recommendedsuch a review. Meanwhile, a longterm international effort is underway to examine the international agricultural research systems, and USAID is completing adesktop review of agriculture and natural resources management research priorities (see Appendix G).19 The results of these reviews should be used to betterfocus USAID’s agricultural S&T investments and to ensure that such investments meet the needs of client countries for providing adequate food supplies andpromoting economic growth. USAID’s agricultural programs should not be allowed to languish.17USAID currently provides funding for a Collaborative Agricultural Biotechnology Initiativethat is designed to develop technologies for small farmers and to support local decisionmakingsystems to ensure the safe and effective application of these technologies.18M. Taylor and J. Howard. Investing in Africa’s Future, Partnership to Cut Hunger and Poverty inAfrica, Resources for the Future (September 2005)19International Resources Group 2005. Agriculture and Natural Resources Management ResearchPriorities Desktop Review. EPIQ II, IQC. Washington, DC: International Resources Group.54 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTMICROECONOMIC REFORMThe private sector (e.g., farmers, cooperatives, micro enterprises, local manufacturers, and multinational corporations) currently provides more than 90 percent of the jobs in developing countries.20 Donor assistance to the private sectortraditionally has focused on direct support to private sector enterprises and encouragement of macroeconomic reforms, but improving the overall investmentclimate for both domestic and foreign private firms also requires microeconomicreforms. This section addresses such reforms without in any way seeking todiminish the importance of effective economic policies across a wide array ofareas, including macroeconomics, trade, and investment.According to USAID, these microeconomic reforms include “improvementsin regulations and other policy changes that directly impact the business andinvestment environment within which a firm operates. The development andenforcement of business regulations can influence the ability of firms to accesscredit, hire and fire employees, enforce contracts, own property, register theirbusiness, process goods through customs, meet standards, protect intellectualproperty, pay taxes, and carry out a myriad of other everyday activities directlyaffecting firm efficiency and productivity.”21Recent research suggests that business regulations are often the most important factors influencing decisions on locating, operating, and expanding firms.22Improvements in the business environment create profit opportunities by lowering transaction costs, reducing risks, and increasing competitiveness. It is theneasier for firms to respond to changes in demand in both global and local markets.Firms find it easier to innovate, whether by adopting widely available technologies, adapting existing technologies to local needs and supplies, or developingnew technologies—including new hardware and more efficient production anddistribution processes.Studies suggest that more than 80 percent of the variation of gross domesticproduct per capita across countries is accounted for by different levels of development of microeconomic fundamentals and that improvements in the businessenvironment can have a significant positive effect on growth.23 The World Bank’sreport “Doing Business in 2005: Removing Obstacles to Growth” estimates that20World Bank. World Development Report 2005: A Better Investment Climate for Everyone.Washington, DC: World Bank, September 2004.21USAID. USAID and Microeconomic Reform Project Profiles. Washington, DC: USAID, June2004.22Background paper by Michael Porter, Building the Microeconomic Foundations of Prosperity:Findings from the Microeconomic Competitiveness Index. www/isc.hbs.edu/pdf/GCR_0203_mci.pdf,accessed July 14, 2005.23S. Djankov, C. McLiesh, and R. Ramalho. Regulation and Growth. Washington, DC: WorldBank, March 2005.FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 55for some countries improvements in the ease of doing business can add 2.2percentage points to annual economic growth.Activities of USAID and Other DonorsOver the past two decades, USAID and other donors have supported initiatives to stimulate private sector growth. The bulk of the assistance, which isestimated to be about $20 billion a year, or 26 percent of development assistance,24 has been for infrastructure development, policy support, and technicalassistance. Approximately onethird of this assistance has been directed to improvements in the investment climate. The focus of these activities has shiftedsince the 1980s, when the main emphasis was on macroeconomic stability,reducing pricing and exchange rate controls, reforming public enterprise, andliberalizing the financial sector. As noted above, economic research by the WorldBank and others showed the importance also of microeconomic and institutionalreform as a means of improving the business environment and supporting globalintegration.On a multilateral level, USAID has worked on microeconomic reform issues with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Development Assistance Committee, the G8, the World Bank, and the World Economic Forum. The new OECD Network on Poverty Reduction is central to theseactivities and provides an effective forum for coordinating donor efforts.At the 2004 G8 Summit, government leaders agreed on actions to promoteprivate sector development, including actions to improve the business climate forentrepreneurs and investors. These include working with the multilateral development banks to support coordinated countryspecific action plans to address keyimpediments to business, and to develop pilot projects to facilitate comprehensive reform programs.USAID is providing financial support for two benchmarking activities: theWorld Bank’s Doing Business Project and the World Economic Forum’s GlobalCompetitive Index. The Doing Business Project reports on the costs of doingbusiness in more than 130 countries.25 The indicators are useful for examiningwhere reforms are needed and for identifying where and why reforms haveworked. For example, the 2005 report says that only two procedures are neededto start a business in Australia, but 19 are required in Chad. In each of thecountries covered the World Economic Forum’s Business Competitiveness Indexevaluates the underlying microeconomic conditions: “the sophistication of the24World Bank. World Development Report: A Better Investment Climate for Everyone. Washington, DC: World Bank and Oxford University Press, September 2004.25Indicators on seven topics are presented—starting a business, hiring and firing workers, enforcing contracts, getting credit, closing a business, registering property, and protecting investors.56 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENToperating practices and strategies of companies and the quality of the microeconomic business environment.”A recent survey of USAID activities related to microeconomic reform indicates that more than 600 activities have been supported since 1990. Many programs have been in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, where politicaland economic changes have required entirely new business models.26 Activitieshave included development of tools for contract enforcement and dispute resolution, assistance in drafting labor regulations, and provision of equity financing forbusiness.In Latin America technical support for microeconomic reform began in thelate 1980s with a program to identify and eliminate constraints on private sectorinvestment in Bolivia. Fewer microeconomic reform activities have been carriedout in Africa than in other regions, but some USAID missions are planningmicroeconomic activities to support expanded trade. Such regulations includethe adoption of sanitary and phytosanitary standards.Challenges and OpportunitiesUSAID is increasing its focus on microeconomic reform. Of course, theagency has a long history of support for economic research that could be used asthe basis for many of its policy reform efforts as well as a broader understandingof development issues. In the case of microeconomic reform there is good evidence of the longterm effects of such changes on economic growth. However,continued support for such reforms will be challenging, requiring staff with economic skills to monitor activities, conduct assessments and research, and carryout evaluations.A onesizefitsall approach is not appropriate for microeconomic reform.Priorities must be consistent with local conditions—current regulatory costs andopportunities for improvements need to be identified. Once initial reforms havebeen made, they must be monitored and enforced. In addition, regulatory systemsconstantly need to be examined and adjusted in response to changing local andglobal conditions.Recent initiatives to link increases in foreign assistance through the U.SMillennium Challenge Account and the World Bank’s Fast Track Initiative toquantifiable reform targets should provide incentives for change. The availabilityof countrylevel data comparing the business climate also provides incentive forchange.USAID’s ability to participate in these new opportunities is limited by thelack of technical staff and qualified contractors. The agency currently has an26USAID. USAID and Microeconomic Reform Project Profiles. Washington, DC: USAID, June2004.FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 57inadequate evaluation capability and limited economic research expertise. USAIDhas only one specialist in Washington working on microeconomic reform issues,and missions have little capability. USAID can draw on contractor support forsome activities, but there are few firms with relevant experience. In the past,USAID had a strong staff of highly qualified economists, directly linked to seniorpolicy makers. This is no longer the case, and USAID is less able to influenceeconomic policies that would allow S&T interventions to have a more substantialimpact on longterm development.Of particular concern is USAID’s current lack of a strong evaluation capability and process for disseminating information on its microeconomic reform efforts. A study by Development Alternatives, Inc. found that the internal evaluation system collapsed in the mid1990s.27 Documentation on USAID privatesector support activities had been lost. Being able to document and conductanalyses of microeconomic reform interventions and the results of such interventions seems essential.NATURAL DISASTERSThe Indian Ocean tsunami dramatically demonstrated the immense vulnerability to natural disasters of millions of people in developing countries. Morethan 280,000 lives were lost; and millions more lost homes, family members, andtheir traditional sources of income. As in other cases of natural disasters, theinternational community responded, pledging billions of dollars for relief effortsand mounting reconstruction programs in every country affected by the disaster.The tsunami was just one recent reminder of the consequences of natural disasterson development prospects. The more recent earthquake in Pakistan is another.An estimated 75 percent of the world’s population lives in areas that havebeen affected at least once during the last two decades by floods, drought, hurricanes, earthquakes, or cyclones. During the same period, more than 1.5 millionpeople were killed by such disasters. An estimated 85 percent of the population atrisk live in developing countries and accounted for more than 98 percent of thedeaths.The economic losses associated with disasters are enormous—estimated atmore than $650 billion annually in the 1990s compared to about $215 billion inthe 1980s and $140 billion in the 1970s. A large portion of the losses occurred indeveloped countries, but these countries generally have systems in place to minimize loss of life (early warning systems, for example). In addition, they haveaccess to immediate emergency and medical care as well as insurance programsto cover some property losses. In developing countries natural disasters are more27D. Snodgrass, and J. Winkler. Enterprise Growth Initiatives: Strategic Directions and Options.Bethesda, MD: Development Alternatives, Inc., February 2004.58 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTlikely to result in significant casualties, economic and social development disruption, and diversion of funds from development to emergency relief and recoveryprograms. Statistics compiled by the World Bank show that in recent years natural disasters reduced annual gross domestic product (GDP) in Nicaragua by morethan 15 percent, in Jamaica by 13 percent, and in Bangladesh by more than 5percent. In Honduras, Hurricane Mitch caused losses of 40 percent of GDP, aboutthree times the government’s annual budget.History of USAID InvolvementThe USAID Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) was created in1964 to provide a central locus for managing U.S. government foreign disasterassistance. Two major disasters in 1963—a volcanic eruption in Costa Rica andan earthquake in Skopje—prompted the creation of the new office.Between 1964 and 1990, OFDA responded to more than 1,100 disasters. Itprovided more than $300 million in International Disaster Assistance (IDA) contingency funds and catalyzed almost $5 billion in other U.S. government funds.Between 1990 and 2000, OFDA provided $45 million annually in responding toalmost 700 disasters. Floods were the most frequent form of disaster, followed bydisasters involving civil strife and complex humanitarian emergencies. While thecommittee has focused on natural disasters,28 it is important to recognize thataddressing problems created by complex humanitarian emergencies is a largepart of the work of OFDA. Increasingly, remote sensing, aerial photography, andother technologies are being used to help respond to such humanitarian crises. Infiscal year 2005 OFDA responded to 17 complex humanitarian emergencies inIraq, Sudan, Liberia, Afghanistan, Angola, Democratic Republic of the Congo,Indonesia, and other countries, spending more than $240 million.For more than 25 years S&T have played an important role in OFDA programs, as OFDA developed early warning systems, improved communicationssystems, and mounted disaster mitigation and response programs. In 1978 theNational Academy of Sciences prepared two reports for USAID, exploring therole that S&T could play in strengthening the office’s programs. One focused ongeneral management issues and the other more specifically on the role of technology in disaster assistance programs. See Box 21 for selected recommendationsfrom the report The U.S. Government Foreign Disaster Assistance Program.Several of these recommendations are equally applicable today.In the late 1980s OFDA and USAID’s Africa Bureau developed FEWSNET, a famine early warning system allowing for the exchange of water informa28Natural disasters are often rapid onset events, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or floods butmay also be creeping disasters, such as drought or famine. In many cases the impacts of suchdisasters are exacerbated by soil degradation and deforestation.FIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 59tion and climate monitoring and reporting on hydrometeorological developments likely to affect food supply, including cyclical droughts and flooding. InAsia, OFDA has worked with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration using seasonal climate forecasts to cope with the effects of the 19971998El Niño/Southern Oscillation. OFDA has supported a number of floodmonitoringprograms in Asia, including community programs in Bangladesh, designed toreduce the vulnerability of people living in flood plains. OFDA has also providedfunding for the U.S. Geological Survey’s Volcano Disaster Assistance Program,which provides technical assistance to volcanomonitoring organizations aroundthe world.OFDA has been able to make effective use of relevant S&T resources notonly from other U.S. government agencies but also from U.S.based and international organizations. Increasingly OFDA has been able to draw on the resourcesof the Department of Defense to assist with immediate logistical support fordisaster response. In addition, OFDA has special authority to expedite contractsfor disaster response services.BOX 21Strengthening USAID’s Response to Disasters1. Greater consideration should be given to operational and planning needsrelated to disasters that involve conflict or slow onset.2. The development of stronger linkages between the AID/OFDA’s disasterassistance program and the broader development programs at AID should be given careful consideration.3. Greater budgetary support should be given to the disaster planning andpreparedness activities of the AID/OFDA technical assistance program.4. High priority should be given to research that will develop more valid andreliable measurements of disaster impacts of societal and international responsesto these impacts.5. The establishment of organizational mechanisms for the exchange of policyrelated research information on disaster prevention, mitigation, and responseshould be given careful consideration at the international level.SOURCE: National Research Council. The U.S. Government Foreign Disaster AssistanceProgram. Washington, D.C.: July, 1978.60 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTContinuing Challenges and OpportunitiesIt is expected that the frequency and cost of natural disasters will increase inthe coming decades—the result of environmental degradation, climate change,and population growth in cities and vulnerable coastal areas. These costs willoccur not only in developing countries but also in the United States and otherdeveloped countries. The enormous economic and social costs caused by Hurricane Katrina revealed the vulnerability of U.S. coastal communities. Many rapidly growing urban areas in developing countries are similarly vulnerable tonatural disasters as large proportions of the population live in unauthorized settlements in ecologically stressed areas.In many countries disaster prevention and preparedness programs tend tolose out to other seemingly more immediate political priorities. Even withinOFDA, prevention and mitigation programs receive only a very small percentageof the overall budget—about 10 percent—with most of the office’s funding usedfor disaster response. Recent experience suggests that more attention should bepaid to assisting countries in prevention and mitigation efforts. Furthermore,USAID’s mainstream development activities generally do not include hazardmitigation activities even in the aftermath of a disaster. This disconnect betweendisaster response programs and longterm development efforts (for example,coastal zone management) deserves increased attention.In OFDA, as in other parts of the agency, constraints on hiring technical staffare a problem. OFDA has attempted to deal with this by using a variety ofmechanisms to borrow staff from other organizations. Only about 10 percent ofthe OFDA staff consists of directhire employees, which hampers the office’sability to influence other offices within the agency and to represent USAID toother organizations. This representation function is more important in the wakeof Hurricane Katrina, as other organizations involved in disasters strengthen theirstaffs.Crosscutting S&T IssuesInformation and communications technology (ICT) is a critical crosscuttingissue that affects a wide variety of programs in such areas as agriculture, healthcare, education, small business, democracy, and trade expansion. A recent surveyof USAID missions indicates that 95 percent of the missions support some ICTactivities, many associated with democracy, governance, or education programs.In a number of instances USAID also provides support for regulations governingICT infrastructure, training of technicians, and ICT hardware. For example, inAfrica, the Leland Initiative helped to establish policy and regulatory regimesand to support local Internet service providers. Working with Cisco Systems Inc.,USAID has provided training for ICT technicians in more than 30 countries.Turning to education, meeting the challenges discussed above requires speFIVE DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES 61cialists with strong scientific, technical, and engineering skills. For the most part,the committee focused on training at the university and graduate levels andstrengthening of local and regional S&T institutions. Equally important, however, is the provision of science education at the primary and secondary levels.For many people, especially in Africa, this will be their only opportunity tobecome scientifically literate, begin to become independent thinkers, and learncritical problemsolving skills. These tools are essential in adjusting to changinglabor markets, adapting and using modern technologies, and being effective participants in civil society. Good basic science and basic mathematics programs atthe elementary and secondary school level also stimulate students to pursuecareers in a variety of scientific disciplines.Currently a large portion of USAID’s education budget is allocated to primary education, but science education seems to be of little concern in theseprograms. One exception is a project to bring science and mathematics teachersfrom South Africa to the United States for leadership training. Clearly, the U.S.S&T education community could provide greater inputs to USAID’s primary andsecondary education programs.633Strengthening the Science and TechnologyCapacity of Developing CountriesSelfReliance: The Key to SustainabilityThe governments of many developing countries recognize the critical importanceof local institutions and specialists being able to identify, adapt, and effectivelyuse the S&T achievements of industrialized nations and to develop their ownunique technologies. According to World Bank officials, requests for S&Trelatedassistance from such governments are on the rise.Better application of technologies of broad international interest can improvemany aspects of social and economic development—from pestresistant crops toless wasteful food processing; from prenatal care and child health to the prevention and treatment of diseases; from reduction of environmental contaminants topurification of water; and from more reliable electricity to more efficient andaffordable communication and transportation systems. Almost every area ofUSAID programming—including even governance and export promotion—isintertwined with the local S&T capabilities of developing countries.Reflecting the continuing need for S&T capacity in developing countries, aUSAID policy adopted in 1983 on institution building continues to have salience22 years later. The policy was as follows:Key institutions in the development process are those that generate, adapt, anddisseminate knowledge and technology at international, national, and local levels. Technology transfer is accomplished most effectively by those countrieswhich have scientific establishments capable of evaluating and adapting knowledge and technologies to local conditions. The establishment of local institutions that have the capacity to tap and contribute to the world knowledge supplymust therefore be a high USAID priority.11USAID. USAID Policy Paper, Institutional Development. Washington, DC: USAID, March 1983.64 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTThe specific technologies that are suitable for addressing development problems vary widely from country to country. In some cases, continued use of wellestablished health, agriculture, and engineering technologies may be more practical than adopting newer technologies that are increasingly used in industrializedcountries. An important key to successful development is the capability of acountry—through its governmental and increasingly its private sector institutions—to be able to select those technologies that can be effectively used andmaintained at affordable costs.Unfortunately the importance of developing S&T capacity may not be adequately reflected in the economic, research, and education policies and programs of the countries themselves or in projects advocated by their foreign partners. Only limited attention is often paid to policies that provide incentives forgovernment or private sector organizations to invest in suitable technologies, thatsupport training programs for the local purveyors and users of technologies—however advanced—and that ensure that product quality standards are met. Frequently public and private sector institutions simply purchase technologies thatare promoted by foreign sales representatives or accept recommendations ofinternational partners with little local appreciation of the effectiveness and limitations of the technologies that are acquired. However, many developing countrygovernments are now striving to have stronger indigenous technical capacities toselect and, when necessary, to adapt both local and imported technologies to helpensure they will perform adequately in the physical, economic, and social environments where they will be deployed. Experienced local researchers can oftenprovide helpful advice during the selection process.Turning to an area where millionsof lives are repeatedly at stake each year,the need for local capabilities to effectively use technologies that help provideearly warning of natural disasters and tosupport prompt and effective responsesfollowing a disaster is demonstrated alltoo often. USAID has a good record ofsupporting the deployment of moderntechnologies in response to hurricanes,earthquakes, floods, and other unpredictable events, but USAID has given lessattention to improving capabilities ofcountries to prepare for and respond tosuch events once the international support teams have left the scene followingan event. Two contrasting examples ofresponding to the challenge are set forthin Boxes 31 and 32.BOX 31USAID has played an important role in the establishment inBangladesh of a system of monitoring levels of rivers that floodpopulated islands and lowlyingcoastal areas each year. Theseefforts, together with efforts ofthe government and other donors, have saved the lives ofthousands of residents of floodprone areas each year.SOURCE: Unpublished report of theNRC Committee on Science andTechnology in Foreign Assistance onfield visit to Bangladesh, January2005.STRENGTHENING THE S&T CAPACITY OF DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 65In another critically important area,nearly all countries recognize the importance of higher education in S&T disciplines. Unfortunately, institutions toprovide such education are not yet wellestablished in most developing countries.In addition, qualified teachers with expertise in S&T are in short supply at both thesecondary school and the university levels.As to the role of local researchers inthe development process, the types ofinvestments that are appropriate varygreatly from country to country. Small,poor countries may not be able to support their own research facilities, and regional approaches might be considered.In Africa, in particular, considerable attention has been given to regional education and research centers. More populous countries may be able to develop their own capabilities more easily. Whetherthe goal is a national or a regional education or research center, external donorsmust recognize that longterm commitments are needed to establish productiveinstitutions. Too often donors are only interested in jump starting new educationor research facilities for a few years. Then, in the absence of a longterm fundingcommitment, embryonic research activities that are on good trajectories are lefton their own; and they may quickly collapse.For decades USAID has made major contributions to strengthening highereducation in S&T and related research capabilities of many countries. For example,USAID has drawn on the capabilities of the U.S. land grant colleges to work withcounterpart institutions throughout the developing world. These efforts have hadgreat impact when sustained over 10 years or more. In particular, training of Mexican and Brazilian plant geneticists has hadexcellent development payoffs in termsof developing and adapting crops that cantolerate harsh environmental conditions.In recent years, however, the investmentof USAID in supporting local S&T educational institutions has declined significantly, as indicated in Box 33.With a few exceptions, longtermcommitments by USAID to support local institutions for a decade or more havebeen replaced by shortterm projects ofBOX 32While satellite technologiescan greatly improve current capabilities to predict the times anddirections of hurricanes, thecountries of Central America thatare in the paths of frequent hurricanes do not have the capabilityto use the products of this technology effectively despite theenormous economic stakes associated with hurricanes.SOURCE: Unpublished report of theNRC Committee on Science andTechnology in Foreign Assistance onfield visit to Central America, March2005.BOX 33The agency has cut back onscholarships, infrastructure, andcommodities. We need to putsome of those tools back in thekit.SOURCE: USAID Administrator, May200566 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTfive years or less. Not surprisingly, there has been a related tenfold decline in thepast three decades in the number of USAIDfinanced graduate students fromdeveloping countries at U.S. universities who focus on problems relevant to thoseencountered in their home countries. Anexample of the negative impact of thisdecline in support for higher educationis reflected in the report from Mali inBox 34.Of course, welldesigned, longtermS&T training at U.S. universities is butone aspect of institution building. Oncetrained, newly minted researchers needadequate facilities to use their training.Unless potential users are interested intheir research, the researchers may endup wasting their time. Still, customizedtraining, in the United States or otherappropriate settings, can be a powerfulstarting point for upgrading local capabilities over the long term. Clearly development of human resources must beat the top of the priority list if nations areto have the ability to adapt, develop, and introduce technological innovations ofimportance to their longterm economic viability. One cannot underestimate thesignificance of networks that result from U.S.based training to the promotion ofU.S. interests.Another approach that has received considerable attention in past decadeshas been the opportunity to link more advanced developing countries with otherdeveloping countries in a SouthSouth transfer of technology. Perhaps the bestexample of such an approach that is currently supported by USAID is the linkingof Israeli researchers with researchers in other Middle East countries. Whilepolitically motivated, this program has supported a large variety of scientificallyproductive relationships.A particularly important type of linkage for some countries is the natural tiethat emerges between scientists and engineers operating in the same disciplines.USAID has supported activities between chemical societies in different countriesinterested in addressing opportunities for marketing natural products (for example, in tropical areas). These relationships are often helpful both in identifyingcommercial opportunities and in ensuring that scientists in developing countriesdo not become isolated from their counterparts in the industrialized world andthen lose interest in science.Against this background of the importance of S&T capacity enhancement inalmost all developing countries, USAID should reverse the decline in its supportBOX 34The decision of USAID todevote all of the education resources of its mission in Mali toprimary education and neglecthigher education is having adevastating effect both on theviability of the local universitiesthat are in their early stage ofdevelopment and on the influxof specialists trained abroad forleadership positions within thegovernment.SOURCE: Unpublished report of theNRC Committee on Science andTechnology in Foreign Assistanceon field visit to Mali, March 2005.STRENGTHENING THE S&T CAPACITY OF DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 67for building S&T capacity within important development sectors in developingcountries. To this end, USAID should:1. Increase the number of USAIDsponsored participants in highly focused graduate training programs designed to develop future leaders in various S&T disciplines. For the reasons discussed above, the opportunities forUSAIDsupported study at U.S. universities should be increased significantly,probably on the order of two to threefold while recognizing that the number ofstudents will not approach the much higher levels of the 1980s. The emphasisshould be on training that can contribute directly to programs in health, agriculture, environment, energy, and other areas of priority interest to developingcountries and to USAID. Visa problems, temptations for brain drain, and U.S.caution concerning the spread of terrorist networks into the United States willplace limits on the extent that such training can be expanded. Nevertheless, theimportance of training future S&T leaders at U.S. institutions has been repeatedly demonstrated through USAID programs. Such training should be reinvigorated using welltested sandwich programs whereby time is divided between study in the United States and field research in the home countries andother proven approaches that focus attention of researchers on persistent problems in their home countries.Training programs in the United States at the graduate level should besupplemented with (1) graduate training programs at welldeveloped regionaland local institutions, (2) opportunities for participation by local specialists inWebbased distance learning programs, (3) shortterm visits by local specialiststo the United States for conferences and shortterm training courses, and (4)broader use of training partnerships with the private sector operating in thecountries of interest. Such training activities should be directly linked to theareas of priority USAID interest in the home countries of the trainees. To theextent feasible, the participants in training programs should be selected from alimited number of institutions to help strengthen both individual and institutional capabilities.The balance between longterm training in home countries and abroad mustbe resolved country by country and on a programmatic basis. An importantconsideration is, of course, the collateral benefits of training in the United States,which usually results in alumni with strong admiration for the United States aswell as increased interest of U.S. professors in dealing with issues related tointernational development.2. Increase financial support for applied research and outreach, includingextension, at local institutions that can support host country priority programsof interest to USAID. Strengthening applied research and outreach capabilities atimportant facilities can provide results of nearterm significance, can help ensuresustainability through local efforts of USAID’s projects, and can stimulate local68 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTinterest in research. In addition, researchers often play important roles in governmental decisions as to the importation of technologies from abroad. Chapter 1presents many examples of past USAID successes in supporting research andoutreach in agriculture and health that are worthy of emulation. Model programsthat attract the attention of researchers from throughout a country are often important in addressing nationwide issues.USAID experience in developing important research capabilities in fieldsbeyond health and agriculture should be examined to ascertain the ingredients ofsuccess; for example, USAID has played a significant role in developing economic and manpower research units in a number of countries, particularly withingovernment ministries. USAID also has assisted in transforming stagnant industrial research institutes supported by governments into important centers of technological innovation (e.g., institutes in India and Guatemala). In some instances,however, shortterm progress was halted as USAID terminated the programsbecause of a lack of nearterm impacts. Documenting the futility of shorttermefforts is also important.A recently initiated USAID program to support Pakistani scientists is anexample of USAID support of local S&T activities that is designed to help inbuilding capacity. The Pakistan government provides up to $3.5 million to localS&T teams annually, and USAID provides $2 million for American collaborators and administrative support. Awards are based on an open competition, withapplications subjected to peer review in both Pakistan and the United States. Itis too early to assess the impact of the program, but early indications are thatfunds will enable important Pakistani organizations and their scientists to playstronger roles in national development (see Appendix K for a list of recentawards).The foregoing discussion of applied research and extension has consideredlargely governmentfinanced activities. Since much of the innovation occurs inthe private sector, governments should have other tools to stimulate innovation(e.g., tax incentives, provision of technoparks and other suitable working areas,and training of private sector employees). As to financial incentives, governments should consider matching funds to leverage private investments in technology innovation and financial support for small technologyoriented businessesthat are struggling to find market niches.3. Provide increased financial support for development of local capacity todeliver public health services. Significant augmentation of existing pools oftrained health professionals is urgently needed worldwide. Schools of publichealth that provide training and research capabilities should become cornerstonesof health infrastructures. A strong social service component is an important aspect of such capabilities. In some cases, it may be possible to upgrade existingeducations centers (e.g., Uganda). In other cases, new institutions are required(e.g., India). In general, the American model may be helpful in the developmentSTRENGTHENING THE S&T CAPACITY OF DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 69of such educational centers, but the special needs and capabilities of individualcountries are crucial considerations in the design of programs and supportingfacilities. USAID is attempting to initiate such an approach in Africa, as indicatedin Box 35. As populations grow, as diseases spread, and as the public’s demandfor better health services increases, this effort along with comparable new effortsin India and other countries are overdue.4. Assist important institutions in developing countries where USAID hasprograms in strengthening their information acquisition and processing capabilities and their electronic access to scientific collections. As developing countries slowly build their S&T infrastructures, local education and research institutions should expand their databases on topics relevant to development, both toavoid unnecessary duplication of earlier research and to provide a better environment that will attract talented students to research. In addition, the ease of acquiring scientific literature available electronically, often accessible only throughadvanced library systems, should be upgraded. The expansion of broadbandInternet systems and the increased number of specially designed databasesthroughout the world could, with modest investment, provide new opportunitiesfor developing country specialists to stay abreast of international S&T advancesin critical areas. Expanding international digital library access is also an important element of this approach.USAID should arrange for American specialists skilled in database management and in the use of international databases to have shortterm assignments inmany of the countries where USAID has programs to help train local databasemanagers. This lowcost approach would generate local interest in the use ofinternational scientific resources; this would also help counterparts design affordable approaches to effective use of these resources.There is a related need to upgrade many types of information resources—from text books to public libraries. While the recommendation in this reportBOX 35Leadership Initiative for Public Health in East AfricaUSAID proposes to partner a limited number of African institutions for publichealth training with U.S. counterparts to strengthen the institutional capacity of theAfrican school to provide advanced leadership training relevant to the health needsof Africa, including epidemiology, health policy and planning, public administration,budgeting, human resource management, and field research.SOURCE: Information provided by Association Liaison Office for University Cooperation inDevelopment, USAID, May 2005.70 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTfocuses on scientific information, it should have collateral benefits in stimulatingexpanded information services in other areas as well.5. Sponsor expert assessments of S&T infrastructures in countries whereUSAID has major programs. Such assessments of current and potential contributions of public and private S&T resources to development should be undertaken by teams of local and international specialists, particularly when qualifiedand objective local scientists are available. The assessments should provide important insights as to how host governments, USAID, other donors, and international organizations can effectively strengthen the infrastructures and integrateS&T resources into the mainstream of economic and social development. Economists and social scientists can play important roles in these assessments. If thereis no indication of interest in such assessments by the host government or donoragencies, however, it is probably better not to launch a project, given the likelihood that the effort will raise false expectations of followon activities.The scope of an assessment will depend on the country of interest. Ukraine,for example, has an extensive infrastructure, and a comprehensive assessmentwithin the context of a single project would be very difficult. Perhaps dividing theassessment into a number of components might be feasible although differentS&T activities often complement one another and the opportunity for synergismmight not receive adequate attention (e.g., the contributions to nutrition of bothhealth care and agriculture). At the other extreme, the infrastructure of Mali isInformation technology, and particularly software developmentSemiconductors, infrared detectors, and large single crystalsLaser technology and light detection and ranging (Lidar systems)Precision electromechanical systemsSpecialty agricultural products and processingNutraceuticals and functional foodsSpecialty chemicals and specialty materialsMineral refiningEarthquake engineeringCommercial applications of nuclear magnetic resonanceGenetic testingSOURCE: National Research Council. Science and Technology in Armenia: Toward aKnowledgeBased Economy, Washington, D.C.: The National Academies Press, 2004.TABLE 31 Areas of Technology Offering Promise for Further Developmentin Armenia.STRENGTHENING THE S&T CAPACITY OF DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 71quite limited; and as indicated during the committee’s field visit to the country, acomprehensive assessment by an expert group would seem appropriate.Table 31 presents one of the findings of a USAIDsponsored assessment ofthe S&T capabilities of Armenia. This particular finding was directed to advanced technologies with commercial potential while other conclusions emphasized the overall policy framework for S&T and trends in the development of thetechnical manpower base. The effort was carried out by an American team sinceit would have been difficult to include local specialists who were not alreadycommitted to their own approaches to improving the nation’s S&T base.Since the U.S. Ambassador in Yerevan requested the assessment, many organizations should have been interested in the results, and particularly USAID,the Armenian government, and the Armenian and international scientific communities. Some crosscutting observations were relevant to USAID’s program interests (e.g., the undeveloped and poorly enforced regulatory infrastructure for protecting intellectual property rights, the paucity of research at the universities, andapproaches to countering the brain drain). But followon activities have not yetmaterialized.The cost of the assessment was $165,000, a small portion of USAID’s annualprogram budget of $56 million for Armenia at the time.•••Initial implementation of the foregoing initiatives within the framework ofexisting USAID programs should be possible without redirection of major budgetary resources. If the initial efforts have high impact, then each initiative couldbe easily expanded to begin to upgrade local S&T capacities. However, sustainedinvestments will be possible only if host governments and the private sector arepersuaded that investments in S&T can be profitable.734Capabilities of USAID to UseScience and Technology EffectivelyProviding Developing Countries withTechnological OptionsAs underscored in Chapter 1, the potential economic and social returns fromeffectively embedding S&T within foreign assistance programs have been recognized by USAID, other donors, and international agencies for decades.Within USAID, surges of interest in drawing on S&T capabilities of theUnited States in formulating and implementing the agency’s portfolio of activities have been followed by declines in the support for S&Trelated activities. Thechanging number and authority of directhire staff members with strong technicalcredentials have probably been the best barometer of the level of attention theagency has given to using S&T in its programs.A primary reason for the recurrent declines has been the doubts of manyUSAID constituencies that S&T should be in favor when limited foreign assistance funds are at stake; for example, the proponents of targeting basic humanneeds as the USAID priority have seldom supported diversion of “their” funds forgrassroots programs to support S&T capacity building, which they contend shouldcome much later in the development process within poor countries. In addition,many U.S. officials, a large number of NGOs, and other organizations are focused on improved governance as the agency’s priority; and they have littleinterest in embracing S&T as a competing priority. At the same time, development specialists have consistently supported three strands of USAID programming wherein S&T are deeply embedded—improved health services for developing countries, agricultural research, and the use of modern technologies inresponding to natural and humanitarian disasters. But many of these practitionerstoo often erroneously assume that highquality and relevant S&T capabilities willbe immediately available whenever USAID decides to buy prepackaged services.74 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTAll the while, the interest of developing countries in improving access to S&Ton a broad basis has been on the increase as reflected in the response of otherdonors and international organizations in embracing S&T as a driver of development. While the USAID leadership may at times recognize and support theseinitiatives, the agency is poorly equipped to respond to such new opportunities.Given the many changes in the context and political support for S&T programs within USAID in the past, a few comments are offered on approachestoward S&T that the agency has adopted since its very beginning. This discussionshould help set the stage for specific recommendations for a future when globalization will continue advancing, and a robust and sustained S&T capability withinUSAID will be more important than ever.In the 1960s, during the early days of USAID, scientists, engineers, andhealth professionals played key roles in development assistance programs. Thesetechnical specialists were clustered both in central USAID offices of engineering,industry, health, and agriculture and in technical support offices of the regionalbureaus in Washington. In the field, large USAID missions had many technicalspecialists on staff, while technical personnel located in regional hubs supportedsmaller missions. Their influence was widely reflected in the agency’s lendingand grant programs as they initiated projects throughout the agency, and manybecame internationally recognized as leading experts in their fields.From the mid1960s until 1980, USAID adopted a variety of organizationalapproaches to expand even further the engagement of the U.S. S&T communitiesin its programs. The Office of the Science and Technology Adviser to the President and the National Academy of Sciences played strong supporting roles in thisregard. A Science Adviser was assigned to the USAID Policy and ProgramCoordination Bureau for several years. A Technical Assistance Bureau withstrong offices for health, population, and agriculture was then established; aspecial S&T office was added to address other areas where S&T could play agreater role. The Research Advisory Committee guided the selection and implementation of innovative research projects. The Administrator appointed a SpecialAdviser for Environmental Affairs. In 1973, the Congress established the Boardon International Food and Agriculture Development (BIFAD) to help expand theinvolvement of Land Grant Colleges in USAID programs. All the while, theUSAID missions continued to have substantial staff capabilities to address technical aspects of their programs in a variety of fields, and the number of S&Trelated projects of the agency continued to grow.In recognition of the important role of S&T in foreign assistance, and takinginto account the foregoing experience, the USAID Administrator in 1981 established a strong Bureau for Science and Technology. This bureau consolidatedmany ongoing activities while continuing to add new S&T programs. For morethan a decade, this bureau raised the profile of S&T in agency activities andattracted many talented technical specialists to the agency.In the early 1990s the office was reconstituted as the Global Bureau inCAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 75recognition that other aspects of foreign assistance were also of significancethroughout the agency, such as supporting the evolution of civil society in Eastern Europe, the former Soviet Union, and elsewhere. With the name change alsocame changes in personnel, and the cadre of talented specialists with technicalexpertise began to shrink. During the 1990s, the overall agency personnel ceilings declined sharply, and many technically trained employees were among thosewho were forced out by the agency’s management in order to meet the requirements of Congress and the Administration. The Research Advisory Committeeand other scienceoriented organizations soon disappeared.Shortly after the turn of the twentyfirst century, a new structure of central“pillar” bureaus emerged. A Bureau for Global Health was established to respondmore fully to the high priority given by the Administration and Congress toaddressing a wide range of health and population issues, including HIV/AIDS,tuberculosis, malaria, voluntary family planning, and maternal and child health.A parallel Bureau for Economic Growth, Agriculture, and Trade (EGAT) assumed the responsibility of supporting innovation in fields other than health andpopulation, and particularly agriculture, energy, natural resources management,and information and communications technology. A new Bureau for Democracy,Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance also had considerable interest in S&T.This interest included application of technologies in anticipating and respondingto natural disasters and in responding to other humanitarian emergencies. Inaddition, the bureau turned its attention to expanding the use of the social sciences in understanding and responding to development problems of fragile states.In mid2005 USAID initiated the process of establishing a new parttimeposition of Science and Technology Adviser to the Administrator on a parttimebasis, and the agency began recruiting for the position. The decision to establishthe position apparently was triggered by the appointment of a wellknown agricultural scientist as Science Adviser to the Director of the U.K. Department forInternational Development (DFID). Perhaps, the interim report of this study,which stated that the present committee was considering a recommendation concerning an S&T adviser, also provided some stimulus. In any event, the responsibilities of the position and the activities of the office, if established, will probablyevolve over a period of many months or perhaps years. The comments of thecommittee set forth in the report should assist in this evolution.ERODED STAFF RESOURCESAs repeatedly mentioned, the technical capabilities of the USAID staff havesteadily atrophied during the past 15 years. When the overall personnel ceilingsdeclined during the early 1990s, USAID emphasized retention of generalists whowere able to manage a variety of activities rather than employees with indepthknowledge of specific fields. However, such indepth expertise, both to helpsolve problems and to assist in anticipating problems, is essential if the full76 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTpotential of U.S. foreign assistance is to be realized. Levels of USAID staffingfrom1997 through 2004 are presented in Figure 41.Figure 42 indicates the number of directhire staff assigned to differentprogram areas. Many staff members do not have technical backgrounds in theirfields of responsibility; they rely primarily on experience gained on the job.In 2005 Congress concurred with a proposal to establish 225 new limitedterm civil service positions over a threeyear period. These appointments for fiveyear periods are intended to reduce USAID’s dependence on contractor personneland personnel of other government agencies who are on assignment withinUSAID. Therefore, 225 positions will be eliminated from the authorized level ofpersonnel embedded within USAID who are employees of contractors and otheragencies.Early indications are that a significant number of the new limitedterm positions are being filled through conversion of contractor and other personnel whoare already working in the agency to directhire employees. Thus, both the number and the technical qualifications of personnel available to work on USAIDprograms may change very little, but bringing the formerly embedded personneldirectly into the agency should enhance agency capabilities during internal dis1244 1218 1127 1043 1037 1079 1095 11321181 1128 1084 1081 1085 1082 1079 10954271 4091 4223 4420 4578 4749 4873 4966772 812 879 930 1056 965 896 9240250050007500FY 1997 FY 1998 FY 1999 FY 2000 FY 2001 FY 2002 FY 2003 FY 2004Number of EmployeesCivil Service Foreign ServiceForeign Service Nationals OtherFIGURE 41 USAID fulltime permanent employees.SOURCE; Miklaucic, Michael. “Four Years of progress at USAID.” USAID Frontlines2005:6.CAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 77cussions that are limited to directhire personnel and discussions with other agencies and other donors.In the 1980s and 1990s USAID developed a robust program for bringing intothe agency a variety of fellows for one to twoyear assignments, most of whomhad important technical training and experience.1 As indicated in Figure 43,however, the number of fellows has declined significantly in recent years. Ofparticular concern to the committee responsible for this report has been the sharpreduction in fellows sponsored by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (see Figure 44). As of December 2005 there were just five ofthose fellows in the agency, and the program, at least in its current form, wasexpected to be terminated this year. The decline in fellows reflects the generalconstraints on personnel ceilings in the agency and the fact that personnel slotsonce held by fellows are now being used by staff members who can make alongerterm commitment and can perform such functions as managing contractsthat fellows are not authorized to do. In addition, management of the program hasbeen shifted to administrative offices from the technical staffers who had been584113092631161151141071047074800 100 200 300 400 500Democracy & GovernanceGeneral DevelopmentHealthEnvironmentPrivate EnterpriseDisaster ResponseEducationAgricultural & Rural DevelopmentEconomicsFood AidLegalEngineeringNumber of StaffFIGURE 42 Assignments of USAID directhire program staff (worldwide). SOURCE:USAID Primer: What We Do and How We Do It. Available at http://www.usaidph.gov/documents/about/aidprimer.pdf. 29. Date accessed June 15, 2005.1Including fellows from the following programs: American Association for the Advancement ofScience Diplomacy Fellows Program, Johns Hopkins University Health and Child Survival FellowsProgram, University of Michigan Population Fellows Program, and Public Health Institute’s Population Leadership Program.78 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTstrong advocates for the program. Nonetheless, agency interest in continuingsuch a program is reflected in plans to issue a request for proposals to operate anew program. One perception of the contribution of AAAS Fellows to USAIDprograms is set forth in Box 41.In addition to efforts to contract forS&T expertise, directhire specialists arecritical to the effective design and management of projects with S&T content.These projects require good understanding by project managers of technicaldetails. Such understanding is importantnot only to ensure that the original designof the project is sound but also to assessproposed adjustments during implementation of the projects and to evaluateresults and possible next steps. In addition, institutionbuilding projects requireinsights as to the quality and capabilitiesof the necessary work force base and theappropriateness of various types ofequipment that may be involved. Thetechnical credentials of USAID projectmanagers are critically important in10614212797750204060801001201401601995 1998 2000 2002 2004YearNumber of FellowsFIGURE 43 USAID fellows (19952004).BOX 41In the 15 years that USAIDhas been funding biotechnologyprograms, these efforts have always been led by former AAASFellows. Five former fellows havefollowed the first one. This continuing influx of new scientificexpertise enables USAID to continue to tap new research breakthroughs and to leverage collaborations with the U.S. researchcommunity.SOURCE: Personal communicationfrom a USAID official to committeestaff, June 2005.CAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 79051015202530354045501982 1987 1992 1997 2002YearNumber of FellowsFIGURE 44 USAID use of fellows sponsored by the American Association for theAdvancement of Science.gaining respect of partners for the suggestions of the managers. It is simplydifficult for USAID officials to manage projects effectively when contractors orother partners have far better understandings of the details of projects than do theUSAID managers. Box 42 presents an example of how S&T expertise relates toa USAID project.As agency technical staffs dwindled, the interest within the agency in havingspecialized “technical” units, particularly in missions, to draw on American S&Tresources also declined. Still, S&T have remained integral parts of many agencyprograms; and retention of a few specialists has been essential. At the same time,the recruitment of new entrants in all disciplines declined until 2001, and eachyear the S&T age bulge within the staff has moved upward.USAID’s strong economic analysis capability was for many years an important component of its efforts to mobilize S&T in support of development assistance programs. The effectiveness of S&T programs is usually dependent insignificant measure on economic policies in the countries where programs aremounted. Unfortunately, the agency’s economic analysis capability has declinedconsiderably in recent years.Similarly, for decades USAID had a strong program evaluation unit, but inrecent years that effort has also declined. Such a unit is important for recordingboth successes and difficulties encountered with innovative projects and for disseminating lessons learned. The USAID Administrator announced in mid2005 apromising development: a new program to revitalize the evaluation functionwithin the agency.80 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTBOX 42S&T Expertise and Project Development and Implementation(Activities carried out jointly with appropriate host country institutions)• Compilation and analysis of technical data that support the need for a project;• Conceptualization of the project objective and the needed S&T inputs to reachthe objective, and identification of the major technical uncertainties and otherchallenges that will be encountered during implementation;• Analysis of technical alternatives in designing the project;• Analysis of project feasibility, including the local capability to use S&T effectively, the availability of financial and human resources to sustain the project overthe long term, and the estimated costs to USAID and to the host country;• Negotiation with the host government and partners of the details of the project,including responses to technical issues that arise;• Organization of peer review of technical aspects of the project;• Preparation of persuasive internal USAID documentation supporting the project;• Monitoring of project implementation and initiating or responding to suggestions for modification of the technical details of the project;• Evaluation of project results and preparation of documentation on lessonslearned; and• Development of recommendations on next steps.Given the reduction in size of technical staffs in Washington and the missions,USAID must depend more than ever on its partners—particularly contractors, otherU.S. government departments and agencies, and nongovernmental organizations—to provide the technical inputsneeded in designing, implementing, andevaluating programs. Fortunately, thestaffs of many partners are competent ina variety of technical fields as indicatedin Box 43. At the same time, the committee received many comments fromUSAID personnel concerning shortcomings in the technical performance ofsome contractors. In any event, theagency has become excessively dependent on contractors and other partners assources of technical expertise.To be most effective the expertiseof partners should be coupled with theBOX 43USAID contractors have recruited leaders with impressiveknowledge of both scientificchallenges and local conditions.While there is a rapid turnover ofcontractors, they have nevertheless quickly found internationally oriented scientists to leadtheir efforts.SOURCE: Unpublished report of theNRC Committee on Science andTechnology in Foreign Assistance onfield visit to Bangladesh, January2005.CAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 81comparable expertise of a strong cadreof directhire technical specialists withinthe agency who participate in internal decisions that determine the strategic directions and program priorities ofUSAID (see Box 44). In addition, wellqualified directhire personnel are essential to ensure a credible presence of theagency during interagency and intergovernmental deliberations. Such deliberations often call for stronger support ofdevelopment of S&T capabilities in developing countries that can help stimulateeconomic growth and social progress. Contractor personnel are at times torn between their allegiances to their employers and their commitments to respond toapproaches of USAID management, which may not be totally consistent with theviews of their employers. This apparently was a major concern in developing theprogram of fiveyear staff appointments discussed above.The decline in the number of S&T specialists has significantly reduced advocacy within the agency for exploring opportunities to increase the impact of USAIDprograms through innovative uses of S&T. Too often technological innovation hasbecome an afterthought that receives little more than lip service in USAID offices,particularly when there are many claimants on limited financial resources. Withouttechnically experienced leaders with direct knowledge of the power and limitations of S&T throughout the agency, thelikelihood is low that S&T will obtain aprominent place in discussions of strategies and priorities.As witnessed during the committee’s field visits, there has been an erosion of the capabilities of mission personnel to identify potentially highpayoffopportunities for innovation and to holdtheir own in technical discussions withwelltrained professionals from hostcountries and other donors. In somecases, technical specialists from otherU.S. government agencies are replacingUSAID personnel as the interlocutorswith important local S&T officials andspecialists. Overall, there is a wide variation in the quality of the S&T underpinBOX 44Mission directors should return to using agency experts todesign and manage programsrather than hiring contractors.SOURCE: USAID Administrator. Report of USAID World Wide MissionDirectors Conference, May 1720,2005.BOX 45USAID cannot become aleader in S&T. What the agencycan do, however, is coordinateeffectively with American scientific agencies in order to ensurethat all projects have the optimum access to scientific knowledge. There are many opportunities for USAID to use thescientific and technical capacityof other agencies more effectively.SOURCE: Unpublished report of theNRC Committee on Science andTechnology in Foreign Assistance onfield visit to India, November 200482 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTnings of USAID programs in the field. While a number of USAID’s partners havestrong S&T competencies, the missions themselves have limited capabilities toeffectively mobilize and focus S&T resources. A relevant observation is set forthin Box 45.Finally, the use of peer review within USAID needs prompt attention.While the concept of peer review to enhance the quality of programs and tomeasure project results is widely accepted within some offices (e.g., USIsraelResearch and MERC programs), the approaches used by USAID to determinewhen and how to carry out peer reviews are sometimes questionable. Oftenpeer reviewers are recruited from existing USAID contractors. In these cases,questions arise as to the independence and objectivity of such arrangements.STEPS TO ENHANCE S&T CAPABILITIES WITHIN USAIDThe committee recommends revitalizing USAID’s efforts to harness thepower of S&T as an essential input into its programs. Specifically, USAID shouldstrengthen the capabilities of its leadership and program managers in Washington and in the field to recognize and take advantage of opportunities foreffectively integrating S&T considerations within USAID programs. The following steps would help achieve this objective.1. Development of an S&T culture within USAID. The USAID leadershipshould continually articulate in policy papers, internal discussions, and interactions with host governments the importance of strengthening local S&T capabilities, integrating these capabilities within a broad range of development activities,and incorporating S&T into USAID programs. The agency should establish training programs and related activities that assist USAID officials engaged in designing, implementing, and evaluating programs to develop a higher degree of science and technology literacy. Within the agency, management should encouragetechnical specialists to pursue innovative ideas during the program planning processes. This commitment of the USAID leadership to integrate S&T into itsprograms when appropriate is fundamental in ensuring that suggestions 2 through7 set forth below can achieve a significant improvement in the agency’s use of thenation’s S&T resources.An institutional culture takes years to develop, but the importance of an S&Tculture seems obvious as the stakes for developing countries in using S&T effectively are increasing every year. As noted in Chapter 1, those countries—however poor—that successfully integrate modern technologies within their overallapproaches to development will have a clear advantage in the rapidly globalizingworld. Even the poorest countries can benefit from a limited S&T assessmentcapability. Therefore, establishment of an S&T culture within USAID that isreflected in field programs should be a longterm agency commitment with nearterm as well as longterm payoffs.CAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 83The best current example of an institutional culture that permeates USAID isthe commitment of employees at all levels in Washington and at all missions tothe promotion of good governance. This governance culture has become solidified within USAID as President Bush has made democracy the hallmark of hisforeign policy and Congress has dramatically increased appropriations for USAIDto support the President’s initiative.Just as good governance provides an important framework for social andeconomic progress, effective use of S&T should underpin the entire developmentprocess.The Agriculture Strategy adopted by USAID in 2004 is a good example ofarticulating how S&T can be embedded within the mainstream of USAID programs. This document could serve as a model for setting forth USAID strategiesin other fields as well.2 In addition, employees should be encouraged to thinkbeyond current program approaches and design innovative applications buildingon the nation’s S&T strengths.With a commitment of the USAID leadership to using American S&T assetsmore fully, the following suggestions could be very significant.2. Strengthening of USAID staff capabilities in S&T. The professionalskills and interests of USAID personnel are a primary determinant of the direction and soundness of agency programs. While the President, Congress, andUSAID leadership can mandate priorities and approaches, unless the staff has thewherewithal to carry out directives, the likelihood of successful programs is low.Of course, new initiatives are sometimes coupled with new authorities to hire therequired expertise; and these initiatives would seem to have the highest likelihood of success.Only if there is a new influx of S&T talent will S&T receive adequateattention in USAID programs on a broad scale. Therefore, the agency shouldrecruit assistant administrators, deputy assistant administrators, and mission directors with strong S&T credentials as well as experience in international development for positions that offer special opportunities for improving USAID’s useof S&T. Such appointments are particularly important in the pillar bureaus inWashington and in missions in the more technically advanced developing countries. More GS14 and GS15 employees with S&T backgrounds are also needed.Bringing S&T expertise directly into the senior levels will significantly increasethe sensitivity of the agency to the importance of S&T. Looking to the future, anincreased number of entrylevel positions should be devoted to young professionals (New Entry Professionals and International Development Interns) with S&T2USAID. USAID Agriculture Strategy: Linking Producers to Markets. Washington, DC: USAID,July 2004.84 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTexpertise, thereby enhancing the technical capabilities of USAID’s Foreign Service (see Appendix L for a description of USAID’s recruitment program).Career incentives for technical specialists to remain at USAID are essentialto retaining experience and talent. Promotion opportunities based on anindividual’s success in applying technical expertise to USAID programs shouldcomplement the more common criteria for promotion that are based in large parton the extent of an individual’s management responsibilities. Such recognition ofthe importance of competence and performance in specialized areas of interest tothe agency should improve the motivation of skilled S&T specialists to join andremain with USAID.The continuing efforts of USAID management to increase the overall operating expense budget in order to have funds to cover salaries of an increasednumber of employees deserve strong support. With an everincreasing portfolioof programs to manage and while still suffering from staff reductions madeduring the 1990s, USAID clearly needs personnel enhancements on a broadbasis. One of the strongest arguments for overall staff increases is the need toattract and retain technically skilled personnel who are up to date in a variety ofS&T areas with highpayoff potential.Technically trained Foreign Service Nationals (FSNs) work in most USAIDmissions. They should be given opportunities to stay abreast of S&T developments through participation in relevant training programs and conferences.3. Appointment of an S&T Adviser to the Administrator. During the summer of 2005, the USAID Administrator began to recruit a parttime S&T Adviser.At the end of 2005 the responsibilities and activities of this adviser were still intheir formative stages. However, a parttime specialist, even with impressivequalifications, will have little impact on agency policies and programs. Whilesuch an adviser might be able to influence some activities in narrow fields, thenecessary bureaucratic processes within the agency are simply too formidable forone person to penetrate working parttime.A fulltime S&T Adviser to the Administrator, supported by a small staff,could help ensure that important program opportunities with S&T componentsare given adequate consideration by the USAID leadership and program managers. A fulltime adviser would have time to organize and participate in evaluations of the appropriate use of S&T in USAID’s programs and to contribute toparticularly important projects. The adviser could help ensure that the agency iswell represented in discussions with other departments and agencies, other donors, and host country officials when technical issues are on the table. Of considerable importance, an S&T Adviser could play a central role in guiding the effortsof the Innovation Center and the Advisory Committee discussed later in thischapter (see Figure 45).The S&T Adviser, assisted by a small staff, would have three responsibilities: an advisory responsibility for bringing to the attention of the USAID leaderCAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 85ship opportunities and issues concerning S&T strategies and specific technologies that are or should be of interest to the agency; a line responsibility foroverseeing the activities of the Innovation Center; and a coordination responsibility for assisting the S&T Advisory Committee in addressing important issues.The first responsibility would provide insights as to agency priorities andopportunities for the Innovation Center and Advisory Committee to make imporDept. of StateS&T AdviserPolicy &ProgramCoordinationAdviceOffice of theUSAID S&TAdviserInnovationCenterS&T AdvisoryCommitteeUSAIDAdministratorPillarBureausRegionalBureausUSAID Field MissionsEstablishrequirementsProvideadviceBIFADOtherAdvisoryBoardsSecretaryofStateFIGURE 45 Strengthening the organizational structure for S&T in USAID.86 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTtant contributions. In working with the center and the Advisory Committee, theadviser would be able to compile authoritative assessments for consideration by theagency’s leadership. In carrying out all three of these responsibilities, the advisershould give special attention to building an S&T culture throughout the agency,regularly using internal workshops and consultations on specific S&T issues.The adviser could prepare annual reports for the USAID Administrator onS&T issues before the agency, perhaps in cooperation with the Science andTechnology Adviser to the Secretary of State. They could analyze USAID successes and difficulties in incorporating S&T in its programs, but they should notbecome simply catalogues of S&T projects. The reports could be widely discussed within and outside the agency while they are being prepared. The Administrator could then decide whether the reports should be distributed to seniorofficials throughout the government and Congress.Such an adviser will only be successful if positioned appropriately within theagency, perhaps as suggested in Figure 45. The adviser needs adequate authorityto interact regularly with senior officials throughout the agency. Continuing andprompt access to the administrator is important. An adequate staff is essential sothat the adviser can participate effectively in policy determinations and financialresource allocations in a manner that adds value to agency efforts.In considering the most effective approach to providing a focal point forS&T advice and coordination within the agency, the committee considered threeother options that were not as attractive.1. The committee’s interim report suggested that the S&T Adviser to theSecretary of State might have a second responsibility as S&T Adviser to theUSAID Administrator. However, the skills and experience required for the twopositions are quite different; each position deserves a fulltime, highlevel specialist, and dual reporting channels would detract from the adviser’s effectivenesswithin USAID.2. The Science Policy and Environment Office within EGAT could be givenan expanded role as the focal point for agencywide S&T coordination. However,the likelihood is low that an S&T office subsumed in one of the bureaus could beeffective across the agency.3. S&T advisers could be established in each of the three pillar bureaus, butthis approach would confuse external partners interested in broad S&T issues andcould generate more friction than cooperation within the agency.4. Establishment of an S&T Advisory Committee. A strong but flexiblemechanism should be established to provide independent advice on technicalissues to the Administrator, assistant administrators, the S&T adviser, programoffices, and field missions. Every day, units of the agency are addressing important S&T issues; external advice regarding responses to particularly significantissues could help ensure that complicated developments are well understood. TheCAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 87existing Board on International Food and Agriculture Development (BIFAD)could become a component of the advisory mechanism, although its compositionshould be carefully reviewed to reduce the possibilities of conflicts of interest.As to participants in this advisory mechanism, there are many S&T specialists with international development experience who are not dependent on USAIDfinancial support and who would be interested in participating. American universities, research centers of U.S. government departments and agencies, and technologyintensive private firms employ many scientists, engineers, and healthprofessionals who are well respected for independent and objective views.The Science Advisory Board of the Environmental Protection Agency provides an interesting model that might be adapted to the needs of USAID. A parentboard meets several times a year to discuss broad S&T issues. Narrowly focusedpanels meet more regularly to address specific issues that are of interest to agencyleadership or units. The deliberations of the board and panels are captured intechnical reports that provide strong supporting documentation in discussionswithin the Executive Branch as well as between Congress and the ExecutiveBranch.The committee considered two other approaches to expanding peer review,but they were considered to be less effective. Both approaches have been used inthe past by USAID.1. For more than 20 years the National Academy of Sciences, through aspecially constituted Board on Science and Technology in Development, conducted reviews of selected technical issues that were of interest to one or moreUSAID offices. However, such an external mechanism cannot be tightly linkedon a continuing basis to the mainstream of USAID activities—as would be thecase with the proposed Advisory Committee. Therefore, it could influence only anarrow range of issues. This was the case with the previous arrangement with theNational Academy of Sciences.2. For decades USAID has convened various types of ad hoc review panelsto address emerging technical issues and scientific uncertainties of nearterminterest. Too often, however, employees of USAID’s financially linked partnershave been prominent among the reviewers, largely because they were availableand familiar with the specific issues of concern. Other independent reviewershave had difficulty rapidly becoming equally familiar with technical details andonly infrequently have had the opportunity for continuing involvement.5. Establish a Nongovernmental Innovation Center. This center, financedby USAID, would concentrate on application of innovative technologies to specific development problems identified by USAID missions, USAID Washington,and the center’s staff. A center staff of about 40 technical specialists and 10managers or administrators, with an annual budget of about $20 million, couldgive continuing attention to established and emerging technologies and would88 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTsupport mission efforts to help build local technological capacity. Such a staffand budget, while small for a major USAID initiative, should nevertheless besufficient both to command serious attention within the agency and to support acredible core of specialists who could have a broad impact on agency programs.The center should differ significantly from sporadic efforts of the past toestablish mechanisms for improving capabilities to address innovation issuesmore effectively. A model for the center could be as follows:• The center’s charter would call for a program of work that emphasizesinnovative activities, with the expectation that it would have the resources to fieldtest particularly promising developments in cooperation with USAID missions.• A senior USAID official with direct links to the USAID Administratorand other senior officials throughout the agency, namely, the S&T Adviser, wouldserve as the USAID project manager.• A governing board chaired by USAID’s Deputy Administrator and including senior representatives of USAID’s regional and pillar bureaus, togetherwith university and industry representatives, would approve the center’s programof work within the general framework of the center’s charter and evaluate itseffectiveness annually.• There would be an expectation that the center would be sufficiently successful to remain in place for a lengthy period of time (e.g., at least 10 years)thereby providing attractive career enhancement opportunities for the staff.• The center would have a special responsibility for regularly bringingtogether USAID’s other partners that are working on problems of direct relevance to the center’s program of work.• The center would have both a permanent staff of technical experts and arotating staff of specialists on assignments from universities, industry, and otherappropriate organizations for one to three years (perhaps onethird of the staff) tohelp ensure that new concepts are considered in the development and implementation of the program of work.• The center would have a surge capability to respond to particularly important technologyintensive issues of interest to agency offices or missions on ahighly selective basis.The committee considered three other alternatives for increasing the pool oftechnical specialists who could concentrate on innovative activities, but theywere considered less desirable alternatives.1. Enhanced inhouse capabilities. It is highly unlikely that directhirepositions will be allocated to technical specialists to carry out new activities whenthere is an overriding need for technical personnel to be more involved in management of ongoing programs.2. Standard tasking of a selected contractor. Normal contractual arrangeCAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 89ments with other organizations would not provide the necessary clout for thecenter to be successful nor provide the needed continuity over many years tocapitalize on expertise that is developed.3. Small groups of narrowly focused S&T specialists within U.S. government agencies. While selected U.S government agencies would continue theirroles as USAID partners, they are not well positioned to take on the broader roleenvisaged for the center. They would, of course, be important contributors to thecenter’s work.In proposing the Innovation Center, the committee was well aware that formany years USAID has supported technology innovation projects in a variety offields that have been carried out by other government agencies, by universities,by nonprofit organizations, and by private companies, usually on an ad hoc basis.However, as discussed throughout this report, innovation activities need sustained reinvigoration in view of the fundamental role of S&T in the developmentprocess. The Innovation Center will ensure that a substantial critical mass ofeffort will be devoted exclusively to the development and introduction of technological innovations into the development process over an extended period. Ofcourse, many shorterterm efforts will continue to be carried out by other organizations supported by USAID, underscoring the importance of coordination acrossthe agency and with other assistance providers.The committee is not aware of any organization that has characteristicssimilar to those of the proposed Innovation Center. However, in designing thecenter, USAID should examine the experience of other organizations that havebeen involved in selected aspects of innovation and development; for example,experiences of the Battelle Memorial Institute (industrial technologies, medicaltechnologies), the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, and Enterprise Works/VITA (smallscale technologies) should be helpful in developing approaches forthe Innovation Center.6. Strengthening the economicanalysis capability of USAID. Economicpolicies have a profound influence onprospects for sustainable economic development, including development dependenton the use of effective and affordabletechnologies. USAID leaders recognizethat the steady decline of economicscapability within USAID needs to bereversed (see Box 46). This is certainlytrue if program managers are to (1) understand and promote fundamental policyreforms that support development and growth, (2) encourage the creation ofbusinessfriendly environments for private sector firms in host countries, andBOX 46Expand recruitment of economists and engineers.SOURCE: Agreed followup at USAID Worldwide Mission DirectorsConference, May 2005.90 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT(3) recognize the many dimensions of technological change occurring in almostevery developing country. Of particular importance, support by USAID of theintroduction and development of specific technologies requires careful assessments of the longterm financial implications of proposed projects.In some cases USAID can rely on the work of the World Bank and otherorganizations that have strong economic analysis units and recognize the importance of the private sector contribution to development. But it is essential forUSAID to have a strong economics staff since understanding and promotingappropriate economic policies, at both the macro and the micro level, is critical toUSAID’s development mission.The oneperson professional staff in EGAT responsible for microeconomicreform projects has commendable ambitions but cannot respond to many of therequests for assistance. The principal activity of the unit is to arrange for economic specialists to go to the missions and provide advice on specific issues,activities that often reflect requests from host governments for shortterm economics expertise related to promoting private sector investment.7. Revitalizing the program evaluation capability of the agency. USAID’soncerobust capability to carry out rigorous evaluations of program effectivenesshas declined, making it difficult for USAID to understand the reasons for thesuccess or failure of particular programs. Restoration of this capability is important in providing lessons learned from all types of projects, including those thathave involved S&T. Projects focused on S&T must overcome many hurdles, andpast successes can provide useful pointers for the future. The successes in usingremotesensing technologies and biotechnology are but two examples of lessonslearned that should be easily retrievable.USAID contractors can carry out some evaluation activities, of course. Butwellqualified directhire professionals are needed to guide the design of evaluation methodologies, to coordinate within USAID feasible approaches to carry outevaluations that should involve the missions, and to bring to the attention ofagency managers lessons learned from USAID projects. In addition, a career staffis essential to ensure that the initial momentum in ramping up the program ismaintained and to draw continually on lessons learned in years past as newinitiatives are considered by program offices.In summary, a number of steps have been suggested above to enable USAIDto use S&T more effectively in its programs. They should be an important pointof departure for upgrading the agency’s S&T capabilities.On several occasions during the course of the study, USAID officials askedthe committee to provide estimates of the number of new S&Trelated positionsthat are required to provide the agency with an internal capability such as that setforth above to take full advantage of U.S. S&T assets. During these discussions,a senior USAID official estimated for the committee that the number of additional directhire scientists and engineers, both civil service and foreign serviceCAPABILITIES OF USAID TO USE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EFFECTIVELY 91that are needed within USAID is in the range of 50 to 150. The committee has nobasis for disputing the estimate. A detailed work force analysis by specialistsfamiliar with USAID’s entire portfolio and sensitive to the importance of S&Tskills during the age of globalization is required to arrive at a wellconsiderednumber. Nevertheless, in order to be responsive to the USAID request, a verypreliminary estimate of the personnel requirements to implement the recommendation in this chapter is offered by the committee, keeping in mind the estimate of50 to 150 positions:• At least 10 of the approximately 100 assistant administrators, deputyassistant administrators, and mission directors should have strong S&T backgrounds.• Fifteen new directhire positions at the GS14 or GS15 levels for specialists with strong S&T backgrounds are needed.• Five directhire positions are needed in the Office of the S&T Adviser.• Five new directhire positions are needed in the economics unit of EGAT.• Three new directhire positions are need in the program evaluation unit.• The intake of AAAS Fellows should increase to 1520 each year.• Recruitment of 1520 New Entry Professionals with strong S&T background should be carried out each year.For too long USAID has been forced to substitute personnel from contractorsand other government agencies for needed directhire employees with strongS&T capabilities and has lagged behind in identifying and using opportunities fortechnological innovation in a number of fields. The initiatives proposed in thischapter will be important steps in restoring the expertise needed to draw effectively on the nation’s powerful S&T assets in foreign assistance.935USAID’S Coordination with Other U.S.Government Departments and AgenciesCapitalizing on USAID’s Unique Field PerspectiveThis chapter addresses coordination among U.S. government departments andagencies in Washington and overseas locations as they deal with S&Trelatedissues that are within the broad legislative mandate of USAID. The emphasis ison actions that USAID can take to improve coordination, recognizing that theDepartment of State often has the lead in ensuring appropriate coordination.The chapter does not address coordination of USAID programs with those ofother donors, international organizations, NGOs, multinational companies, or otherorganizations interested in foreign assistance. Such broader coordination is an important and complicated issue that is particularly significant in helping to ensurewise use of limited international resources. However, the topic of coordination withall parties interested in foreign assistance is beyond the scope of this study.About 40 U.S. government departments and agencies have bilateral andregional programs involving developing countries. S&T are prominent themes inmany of these programs. The programs are, in the first instance, designed tocontribute to achievement of the missions of the departments and agencies, missions that have become increasingly international as globalization becomes amore prominent aspect of governmentwide policies and programs. Some programs in developing countries contribute to economic and social development ofthe cooperating developing countries as well; but this aspect is usually an objective of secondary importance to U.S. departments and agencies as they extendtheir global reaches.Several examples of the expanding interests of U.S. departments and agencies underscore the breadth of U.S. government activities abroad. At the top ofthe list, the Department of State is vitally concerned as to the impacts of foreign94 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTassistance in all target countries. The social and economic development of thesecountries directly affects many U.S. foreign policy objectives, including (1) promoting global and regional stability, (2) supporting U.S. private sector investments abroad, (3) ensuring U.S. access to important energy and other naturalresources, and (4) countering the spread of terrorist groups. The Department ofState has increasingly taken on management responsibilities for operational programs in the developing countries, and particularly the President’s EmergencyProgram for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). The Department of State plays a lead rolein determining the purposes and levels of U.S. contributions to internationalorganizations that have many programs in developing countries.Of special relevance to this study are the interests of the Department ofState’s Office of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs(OES). The office is, of course, interested in USAID’s activities that provide newchannels for international cooperation and communication but has not showncomparable interest in the development of S&T capacity in developing countries.OES has limited program funds that it has used on occasion for environmentaland other activities in the developing countries. The office has for many yearsdeveloped strategic plans for addressing S&Trelated issues throughout the world,and these plans inevitably overlap with the interests of USAID when addressingdeveloping countries.1 The level of coordination among OES, the department’sscience and environmental officers in U.S. embassies in developing countries,and USAID program officers is inconsistent, and depends largely on the breadthof experience and interests of the officials involved. Of course, communicationamong all parties on issues of mutual concern should be strongly encouraged, butattempts to strengthen coordination of USAID’s program interests with the interests of OES through new bureaucratic requirements should be undertaken withgreat care lest such efforts complicate rather than improve the effectiveness ofUSAID’s programs and OES’s policies.We saw a highly visible example of interagency coordination reflected inFigure 11: the many streams of U.S. financing of programs to combat HIV/AIDS worldwide, including indirect financing through international organizations. The PEPFAR program, in particular, has provided considerable stimulusfor improved coordination of U.S. activities abroad. U.S. ambassadors are explicitly charged by the administration to personally lead the coordination. In somecountries the ambassadors have extended this coordination to encompass all U.S.financed health programs.1See, for example, NRC. Goals, strategies, and objectives in the program plan of the Bureau ofOceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs. In The Pervasive Role of Science,Technology, and Health in Foreign Policy, Imperatives for the Department of State, pp. 106111.Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1999.USAID’S COORDINATION WITH OTHER U.S. GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS 95The Department of Defense and the Department of State undertake majorefforts in facilitating the transition from U.S. military occupation of wartornareas to stable civilian governments. The Department of Defense is also activelyinvolved in strengthening the technological capabilities of developing nations,which assists in resisting military invasions and strengthening the base for civilian activities. The Department of Health and Human Services has extensiveprograms to contain infectious diseases and combat other health problems onevery continent. Table 51 describes the extensive efforts of the National Instituteof Allergy and Infectious Diseases in southern Africa. The National ScienceFoundation supports scientific cooperation of researchers from many developingcountries to address issues of considerable importance to American scientists andengineers as well as being of interest in their own countries. The Centers forDisease Control and Prevention, U.S. Department of Agriculture, EnvironmentalProtection Agency, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and National Aeronautics and Space Administration also have active programs that spanthe globe.For decades USAID has provided funding to various U.S. government departments and agencies to manage implementation of USAID programs that havetechnical content of direct interest to the departments and agencies. For example,the Department of Agriculture and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention manage USAID projects in dozens of countries. Usually the projects are fullyor largely funded by USAID, but on occasion there is cost sharing betweenUSAID and the implementing organization. These other organizations often havetheir own programs in developing countries—funded directly through congressional appropriations—that are relevant to USAID’s interests.The establishment of the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) in 2003has added a new dimension to foreign assistance. With an annual budget in thebillions of dollars, this independent organization provides financing in responseNIAID supports projects in 25 countries. Examples include:• Adult AIDS Clinical Trials Group—a net work on clinical sites that investigates therapeuticinterventions for HIV/AIDS infection and its complications in adults.• International Collaborations in Infectious Disease Research—to promote interactionbetween U.S. investigators and scientists in a host country where tropical diseases are endemic.• Tuberculosis Research Unite—translates advances in TB research into new tools forimproved clinical trials.• Pediatric AIDS Clinical Trails Group—network of clinical sites that evaluates clinicalinterventions for treating HIV/AIDS infection and its complications in neonates, infants,children, adolescents, and pregnant women.SOURCE: NIAID. Communication with Committee, March 2005.TABLE 51 The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases’Research Activities on HIV/AIDS, TB, and Malaria in SubSaharan Africa96 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTto requests from governments of developing countries (23 developing countries asof late 2005) that are on sound paths to “ruling justly, investing in people, andencouraging economic freedom.” The MCC has had a slow startup; but the availability of substantial funding after programs are launched seems secure, even thoughthe level is not as high as anticipated in 2003 (because of the initial delays).As discussed in Chapter 2, another area of interagency significance is providing early warning of and response to natural disasters. In this area USAID dependson support from other departments and agencies. In particular, the Department ofDefense has many types of capabilities that are often deployed when there are suchemergencies. Sometimes they are deployed at the request of USAID and are financed by USAID. On other occasions they are deployed at the initiative of theWhite House, the Department of State, or the Department of Defense itself, and inthese instances the funding responsibility is less certain and determined case bycase. In any event, with many departments and agencies involved—let alone othergovernments, international organizations, and NGOs—coordination is critical; andUSAID is usually the coordination point for the U.S. government.Technologies play important roles in such responses and in coordination ofresponses. Communications technologies linking the international responses tothe activities of the affected governments are particularly critical. Appropriateinternational sharing of responsibilities for different types of activities—fromproviding food supplements to arranging for evacuation of damaged areas—isessential, and computer databases loom large in promoting and monitoring suchsharing. Damage assessments through use of satellite and aerial photography incoordination with ontheground observations are also a high priority. Governments and NGOs often send teams of scientists to the scene to record observations that will be helpful in predicting future disasters and improving responsestrategies; sharing of information is important for the success of such missions.According to the USAID Administrator, USAID now funds only about 50percent of U.S. government foreign assistance. Thus, the intersection of USAIDprograms and the interests of other departments and agencies are manifold. Asdiscussed throughout this report, S&T inevitably permeate many of these programs. The importance of effective coordination of the multiplicity of programsis clear and must be a highpriority responsibility of department and agencyleaders in Washington and U.S. ambassadors around the world.USAID has unique legislative authority of great breadth to support innovative programs in developing countries, unrivaled field experience in adaptingtechnological advances to conditions and capabilities of poor countries, and manysuccesses in integrating S&T into development activities. Therefore, the agencyshould continue to play a critical role in S&Trelated programs of the U.S. government throughout the developing world.To this end, the committee recommends that USAID encourage other U.S.departments and agencies with S&Trelated activities in developing countriesUSAID’S COORDINATION WITH OTHER U.S. GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS 97to orient their programs to the extent possible to supporting the developmentpriorities of the host countries; USAID should provide leadership in improvingcoordination of U.S.government.sponsored activities relevant to development.As previously noted, both in Washington and overseas the need for interagency approaches that are mutually reinforcing and for coordination of overlapping activities is increasing. As repeatedly emphasized in this report, USAID’sfield perspectives should be effectively integrated with the strong S&T assessment and programming capabilities of a number of other organizations. Therefore, USAID should:1. Assume leadership in the establishment in Washington of an effectiveinteragency committee to coordinate overlapping S&T interests of U.S. departments and agencies in developing countries. USAID, in cooperation with theOffice of Science and Technology Policy and the Department of State, shouldtake a leading role in bringing together the departments and agencies. USAIDshould ensure that such an arrangement does not deteriorate just into sessionswherein other agencies request funds from USAID. Rather, the agency needs toemphasize the importance of coordination on topics that have significant development potential, whatever the funding source. These topics include:1. The development and implementation of bilateral S&T agreements promoted by the Department of State, which in the past has too often turned toUSAID for financial support of already agreed programs that are of little interestto USAID;2. USDA programming of PL480 funds that directly overlap USAID interests (see Box 51);3. NASA remotesensing programs that could add new dimensions toUSAID agricultural and environmental efforts;4. CDC disease surveillance activities that should complement USAIDhealth programs; andBOX 51The Department of Agriculture is developing a program to provide grants foragricultural research through the Bangladesh Academy of Sciences using PL480funds available to the U.S. government. The USAID mission knows nothing aboutthis academy nor was the mission consulted on the design of the program eventhough the mission has a major interest in agricultural research.SOURCE: Unpublished report of the NRC Committee on Science and Technology in ForeignAssistance on field visit to Bangladesh, January 2005.98 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT5. Department of Commerce’s capacitybuilding programs for internationaltrade that are related to USAID’s efforts to promote economic growth.The interagency committee should focus its attention both on policy coordination in Washington and on coordination of ontheground activities in the field.The interagency committee could review annually the drafts of the country strategies prepared by U.S. embassies in five or six countries where USAID has majorprograms. The committee could then provide feedback to the embassies concerning opportunities for increasing the impacts by more fully integrating the program interests of different departments and agencies.There is, of course, a variety of coordination mechanisms already in place inWashington. Although the former interagency committee on international activities2 established in the 1990s by the Office of Science and Technology Policy nolonger exists, the National Technology Council, a White House coordinatingcouncil, has taken on several international topics. At present the Department ofState brings together representatives of a large number of departments and agencies to address a variety of S&Trelated issues that have development relevance,such as (1) global climate change, (2) AIDS/HIV programs, and (3) S&T in theformer Soviet Union. USAID regularly convenes interagency meetings to dealwith disasters and other humanitarian emergencies. There is, however, no mechanism to address S&Trelated development challenges on a broad and continuingbasis. The proposed interagency committee should not duplicate the many effortsunderway but should be aware of them in its deliberations.2. Emphasize within the joint State DepartmentUSAID planning processand in the field the payoff from broad interagency coordination of S&T activities. The administrator and mission directors of USAID should continually advisethe U.S. ambassadors at posts where USAID is active of the important contributions that USAID can make in developing U.S. country strategies that encompassS&T. The mission directors should be strong advocates for broad coordination intheir daily activities.3. Clarify the division of responsibilities for supporting research relevantto international development supported by USAID and by other U.S. government departments and agencies. In general, USAID should concentrate its resources on identifying opportunities to use scientific achievements in the field,and facilitating their adaptation and introduction, leaving other aspects of research to others. Delineations that are more precise should be sector specific andat times project specific. Table 52 presents a suggested role for USAID in the2Committee on International Science, Engineering, and Technology (CISET).99Improved HealthOutcomesLocal agenciesUSAID (major)Global fundWHOBilateral donorsPEPFARPharmaceutical and medicalsupply companiesLocal research organizationsUSAIDBilateral donorsNIHPharmaceuticalcompaniesInternationalfoundationsLocal researchorganizationsLocal agenciesUSAID (major)/ CDCBilateral donorsAdaptation at scaleStrengtheningnational healthsystemsMonitor programeffectiveness andmodify approachesProduct developmentField trialsConsumer researchModification of existingproductsDisease surveillanceAssessments ofburden of diseaseIdentification ofCritical KnowledgeGapsFieldImplementation andEvaluationAppliedResearch/Development/AdaptationBasic Research Health Assessment/Priority SettingPerformanceTaskTABLE 52 Improving Health Outcomes: Role of USAID in the New Global Landscape for Research on SpecialProblems of Developing Countries.100 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENThealth sector. In the agriculture sector the environmental uniqueness of differentlocations suggests that USAID needs to reach further back in supporting research. In the energy field, applications may be more appropriately left to theprivate sector.4. Work with other government organizations involved in preventing andresponding to natural disasters in order to strengthen the capacity of developing countries to improve early warning systems, upgrade the resilience of physical structures to impacts, increase availability of emergency social support resources, and develop response strategies that can be integrated with longtermdevelopment programs.An important starting point is to ensure that internal mechanisms are in placewithin USAID for handing off responsibilities for combating disasters over thelongterm from the disaster response offices that are concerned with immediateproblems to development assistance offices that are responsible for the long term,and then to draw on the capabilities of other agencies to upgrade warning andresponse capabilities in the developing countries.5. Work closely with the Departments of State and Defense and othernational and international organizations involved in reconstruction of wartorn areas, taking advantage of the technical capabilities of these partners whilesharing USAID’s experience in charting the course for recovery. Current experience in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Kosovo underscores how important it is for USAIDto have strong engineering capabilities within the agency and its partners toprovide nearterm relief for decimated populations.6. Develop programs that complement the programs of the Department ofState for combating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. USAID, among themany organizations interested in combating HIV/AIDS, should capitalize on itsunique field capabilities to build local capabilities for delivering health services.As suggested in Table 52, USAID’s emphasis should be on assessing the publichealth situation and on implementing and evaluating the impacts of field programs.7. Encourage the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) to take advantage of USAID’s many years of experience in promoting international development in the countries where the MCC has decided to initiate programs.The USAID Administrator, as a member of the MCC board, should ensure thatthe board and staff involve USAID specialists in consultations with recipientgovernments and in reviews of proposals by these governments. The early praiseset forth in Box 52 suggests that USAID is indeed contributing to the initialactivities of the MCC.The pooling of expertise and financial resources has enabled USAID to haveimpacts far beyond those that its own capabilities would allow. The importanceUSAID’S COORDINATION WITH OTHER U.S. GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS 101of such coordination is increasing, and steps are urgently required to ensure thatexpanding programs enhance and not detract from USAID’s mission.Implementation of the foregoing suggestions will require considerableUSAID staff time. The USAID staff enhancements suggested in Chapter 4 wouldcontribute directly to the improvement of interagency coordination. Even withoutadditional staff, limited upgrading of coordination should be possible.BOX 52We could not have done our job in our first startup year without you, the USAIDmission directors. We want to preserve and expand USAID funding; you do thingswe cannot do that are essential to the fight against poverty . . . MCC is allocating$180 million to USAID to help several threshold countries become eligible for assistance and in all cases MCC teams will depend on USAID teams to provideknowledge of the countries and local officials.SOURCE: Statement of the President of MCC at the USAID Worldwide Mission DirectorsConference, May 1720, 2005.103EpilogueS&T are integral components of most development activities. The better theS&T base for these activities, the greater the likelihood for social and economicprogress in the developing countries. Judging from the field visits of the committee and from discussions by committee members with a large number offoreign assistance practitioners, many developing country governments realizethat longterm progress depends in significant measure on their ability to useS&T effectively.This report sets forth a number of recommendations and suggestions forenhancing the capabilities of USAID to contribute to building appropriate S&Tcapacity in the countries where it has programs. It highlights the overridingimportance of increasing the S&T capabilities of USAID’s foreign service andcivil service employees. It emphasizes that while its partners provide importantS&T capabilities, strengthened internal staffs are essential to guide the programsof the agency that rely on S&T expertise.All of the recommendations set forth in this report could be implemented atthe direction of the USAID Administrator and his senior staff, with the exceptionof the recommendation to establish an S&T advisory committee which wouldrequire approval by the Office of Management and Budget. But it will not be aneasy task to convince the USAID leadership to embrace S&T more fully whenthere are so many competing demands for personnel slots and financial resources.To this end, this report can provide a basis for followup discussions by the S&Tproponents, within and outside USAID, with the Agency and Congressionalleaderships.104 THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF S&T IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTIf there are decisions within USAID to move forward in the S&T arena on asignificant scale, the implementation of programs that are developed will requiretenacity and determination by the S&T proponents over a period of years. Indeed,sustaining the effort for the indefinite future should there be a decline in theforeign assistance budget will be a difficult task. But the development payofffrom better access to S&T achievements by populations of developing countriesand the rewards for the security of the United States from new internationalpartnerships in critical technological areas are potentially very great. Therefore,even though the outcome a decade into the future from this proposed S&T initiative cannot be predicted with certainty, the stakes are so great that a decision bythe USAID Administrator to provide significant resources for S&Trelatedactivities at this time is fully warranted.105APPENDIXES107Appendix AStatement of Task fromCooperative AgreementA Committee of the National Research Council (NRC) will assess new opportunities for the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and its partners to draw on the science, engineering, and medical resources of the nation indesigning and carrying out foreign assistance programs. The assessment willrecommend steps that USAID should consider in enhancing its capabilities to usethese resources for addressing the challenges of international development in theyears ahead. Among the recent developments of interest to USAID that will beconsidered are (a) the expanding science and technology interests of the Department of State and their relationship to the activities of USAID, (b) the role of theMillennium Challenge Account (MCA), and (c) the establishment of partnershipsthat link USAID with international, regional, U.S. governmental, and private sectorfoundations and other organizations.This project will examine selected aspects of USAID’s activities that havebenefited or could benefit from access to strong science, technology, and medicalcapabilities. The activities to be considered, while only a portion of the largenumber of relevant programs and projects, will span the full range of development assistance, humanitarian assistance, and economic support. Of special importance are programs in fields such as health care, agriculture and nutrition,energy, and the environment. Cutting across these sectors are programs directedto education and job creation as well as the strengthening of enabling technologies in areas such as information and communications.109Appendix BBiographies of Committee MembersThomas Pickering (cochair) is senior vice president for international relationsof the Boeing Company. He assumed this position in 2001 and oversees thecompany’s international affairs, including those involving foreign governments.Ambassador Pickering served as Under Secretary of State for Political Affairsfrom 1997 to 2000. Prior to that, he briefly held the position of president of theEurasia Foundation. In a diplomatic career spanning five decades he served asU.S. ambassador to the Russian Federation, India, Israel, El Salvador, Nigeria,and Jordan. From 1989 to 1992 he was the U.S. representative to the UnitedNations.Kenneth Shine (cochair) (IOM) is vice chancellor for health affairs of theUniversity of Texas System. Previously he was the director of the Center forDomestic and International Health Security at the RAND Corporation. He wasthe president of the Institute of Medicine from 1992 to 2002. He is a professor ofmedicine emeritus at the School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, where he has also served as dean and provost for Medical Sciences.Barry Bloom (NAS/IOM) is dean of the faculty of the School of Public Healthand professor of immunology and infectious diseases at Harvard University. Hehas been extensively involved with the World Health Organization for more than30 years. Dr. Bloom served on the U.S. AIDS Vaccine Research Committee andthe National Advisory Board of the Fogarty International Center. He chairs theBoard of Trustees for the International Vaccine Institute in South Korea. He alsohas served on the National Advisory Council of the National Institute of Allergy110 APPENDIX Band Infectious Diseases, the Scientific Advisory Board of the National Center forInfectious Diseases, and the Governing Board of the Institute of Medicine.Owen Cylke manages a collaborative project with the World Bank on issues oftrade liberalization, rural poverty, and the environment within the World WildlifeFund’s Macroeconomics for Sustainable Development Program. From 1993 to2002 Mr. Cylke was director of the Policy Group, a development initiative ofWinrock International and the Tata Energy and Resources Institute supported bythe U.S.Asia Environmental Partnership. Earlier Mr. Cylke served as presidentof the Association of Big Eight Universities (19891992). At USAID from 1966to 1989, he was deputy assistant administrator for Food and Voluntary Assistance, director of the Economic Assistance Mission to India, and deputy directorof the Economic Assistance Missions to Egypt and Afghanistan.Lee Hamilton has been the director of the Woodrow Wilson International Centerfor Scholars since 1999. Previously he served for 34 years as a U.S. congressmanfrom Indiana. He was a leading congressional voice on foreign affairs, withparticular interests in promoting democracy and market reform in the formerSoviet Union and Eastern Europe, promoting peace and stability in the MiddleEast, expanding U.S. markets and trade overseas, and overhauling U.S. exportand foreign aid policies. Mr. Hamilton has also been a leading national figure oneconomic policy and congressional organization.Susanna Hecht is a professor of urban planning and the associate director of theUniversity of California, Los Angeles, Latin American Center. Her researchinterests include the political economy of tropical rain forest development, womenin development, international environmental politics, and environmental history.Her current research analyzes the dynamics of decentralization and democratization on patterns of deforestation in the Brazilian and Bolivian Amazon. She isalso involved in a project in Central America and Mexico that uses remote sensing and ethnography.Susan Henry is the dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences andprofessor of molecular biology and genetics at Cornell University. From 1991 to2000 she was the dean of the Carnegie Mellon College of Science. She is amember of the Committee on Election to Fellowship and of the Board of Governors Nominating Committee, American Academy of Microbiology. She is thepast chair of the National Institutes of Health Advisory Committee on Researchon Minority Health. Dr. Henry’s research is supported by NIH.David Hopper has an extensive career in the field of sustainable developmentand economic and agricultural policy. From 1978 to 1987 he was vice presidentfor the South Asia region at the World Bank. He retired from the World Bank inAPPENDIX B 1111990 after three years as a senior vice president for Policy, Planning, and Research. In 1970 he became the first president of the International DevelopmentResearch Centre in Canada. Prior to that time he was a professor until 1962, whenhe joined the Ford Foundation and then the Rockefeller Foundation as an agricultural economist in India. Since retiring from the World Bank, he has taken seniorpositions at Haldor Topsoe Inc., Ontario Hydro International Inc., D&R Associates International, and Acres International Inc.Michael T. Rock is a professor and chair of the Department of Economics ofBryn Mawr College. He previously served as professor and chair of the Department of Economics at Hood College. From 1994 to 1999 he worked as a senioreconomist at Winrock International Institute for Agricultural Development, afterserving as a professor of economics at the Institute of International Relations,Hanoi, Vietnam. He worked at the U.S. Agency for International Development asdirector of the AID Staff Strengthening through Environmental Training (ASSET) Program from 1992 to 1993. From 1986 to 1992 he was director of USAID’sDevelopment Studies Program.Allan Rosenfield (IOM) has been dean of the School of Public Health at Columbia University since 1986. He is also professor of ObstetricsGynecology andPublic Health. In 1966, he finished his medical training and subsequently spentone year as an instructor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at theUniversity of Lagos Teaching Hospital in Nigeria and six years as Medical Advisor to the Ministry of Public Health in Thailand. Dr. Rosenfield has served aspresident of the New York Obstetrical Society, chair of the Executive Board ofthe American Public Health Association, and chair of the boards of the PlannedParenthood Federation of America, AVSC International, and the Alan GuttmacherInstitute. He is currently chairman of the New York State Department of HealthAIDS Advisory Council, and presidentelect of the Association of Schools ofPublic Health.Philip M. Smith is a science organization executive and policy consultant. Froml981 to midl994, he was executive officer of the National Academy of Sciencesand National Research Council. For more than 20 years he was a governmentresearch management and science and technology policy official with the WhiteHouse Office of Science and Technology Policy, Office of Management andBudget, and National Science Foundation.Barry Worthington has been the executive director of the United States EnergyAssociation since 1988, responsible for the Association’s domestic and international activities. Previously he served as a vice president of the Thomas AlvaEdison Foundation. Mr. Worthington also serves as chairman of the NationalEnergy Foundation and is a member of the Board of Directors of the World112 APPENDIX BEnvironment Center and the U.S.China Energy Environment Center, as well astrustee of the Energy & Mineral Law Foundation. He has written extensively onenergy and environmental matters, and addresses many conferences on nationaland international energy issues113Appendix CField Visits andKey Organizations ContactedIndia Field Visit (Health), August 1421, 2004Panel membersKenneth Shine, committee cochair, University of Texas System, Office ofHealth AffairsHelen Smits, committee consultant, IOM member, former deputy administratorof the Health Care Financing AdministrationRosalyn Hobson, USAID liaison, Virginia Commonwealth UniversityPat Koshel, staff member, National Research CouncilKey organizations contactedU.S. EmbassyUSAID MissionWorld Health OrganizationDepartment of BiotechnologyDepartment of Health and Family WelfareIndian Council of Medical ResearchCommercial Market Strategies (CMS)PATHIndia (Program for Appropriate Technologies in Health)Project Avahan (India AIDS Initiative)Bill and Melinda Gates FoundationCORE Group Polio ProjectEnvironmental Health Project (EHP)114 APPENDIX CIndiaCLEN (Indian Clinical Epidemiology Network)Gurgaon District Tuberculosis CenterDepartment of Cardiology, All India Institute of Medical SciencesPhilippines Field Visit (Energy), November 711, 2004Panel membersBarry Worthington, committee member, United States Energy AssociationPhilip Smith, committee member, consultantRosalyn Hobson, USAID liaison, Virginia Commonwealth UniversityChristopher Holt, staff member, National Research CouncilKey organizations contactedU.S. EmbassyUSAID Mission• Office of Population and Nutrition• Office of Energy and EnvironmentPhilippines Department of EnergyU.S. Department of Energy, Sustainable Energy Development ProgramAsian Development BankInfinite Progression CorporationMirant Philippines Foundation, Inc.PA ConsultingPetron CorporationPhilippine National Oil CompanyShell Philippines and Shell RenewableUniversity of the Philippines, Department of EngineeringWinrock International, Alliance for Mindanao Offgrid Renewable EnergyProgram (AMORE)Guatemala and El Salvador Field Visit (Biological DiversityConservation), January 1014, 2005Panel membersMichael Clegg, exofficio committee member, University of California, Irvine,foreign secretary of the National Academy of SciencesAnthony Stocks, committee consultant, Idaho State UniversitySara Gray, staff member, National Research CouncilAPPENDIX C 115Key organizations contactedUSAID/Guatemala, Central American Program OfficeCentro Agronómico Tropical de Investigación y EnseñanzaMinisterio de Ambiente y Recursos NaturalesThe Nature ConservancyConsejo Nacional de Areas ProtegidasFortalecimiento Institutional en Politicas AmbientalesBiofor projectPrograma Salvadoreño Investigación Sobre Desarrollo y Medio AmbienteCCAD (Central American Commission for Environment and Development)Biofor Project, PeténWildlife Conservation SocietyAsociación de Comunidades Forestales de PeténBangladesh Field Visit (Agriculture and Food Security),January 1422, 2005Panel membersSusan Henry, committee member, Cornell UniversityCharles Hess, committee consultant, University of California, DavisRosalyn Hobson, USAID liaison, Virginia Commonwealth UniversityGlenn Schweitzer, project director, National Research CouncilKey organizations contactedU.S. EmbassyUSAID MissionATDP II (Agrobased Industries and Technology Development Project)World FishWinrock InternationalCARE BangladeshInternational Centre for Diarrheal Disease Research, BD (ICDDR,B)International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT)Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC)Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI)Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI)Wheat Research Center (WRC)Horticulture Research Center (HRC)The World Bank Resident MissionFood and Agriculture Organization (FAO)Asian Development Bank116 APPENDIX CMali Field Visit (Poverty in a resource deficient country),February 26March 6, 2005Panel membersOwen Cylke, committee member, World Wildlife FundJohn Lewis, committee consultant, ProNatura USARosalyn Hobson, USAID liaison, Virginia Commonwealth UniversityLaura Holliday, staff member, National Research CouncilKey organizations contactedU.S. EmbassyUSAID MissionOECD Paris, Sahel West Africa ClubOffice of Food Security, Office of the PresidentMinistry of Education• National Center for Scientific and Technical ResearchMinistry of EnvironmentMinistry of Agriculture/CNRA• Central Veterinary Laboratory (CVL)European Union Coordination OfficeAgence Française de DéveloppementNetherlands EmbassyWorld Bank OfficeCoordinator CSLP (Poverty Reduction Strategy)Cinzana Research Station (Institut d’Economie Rurale )Primature (MCC)Institut d’Economie Rurale (IER)International Crops Research Institute for the SemiArid Tropics (ICRISAT)Syngenta FoundationUniversity of Mali• Engineering SchoolBiotech LaboratoryCompagnie Malienne pour le Dévelopement des Textiles (CMDT )PRODEPAM, Mali Finance, Trade Mali (USAID/AEG contractors)Malaria Research Laboratory and HIV Laboratory (supported by NIH)Michigan State University OfficeInstitut du SahelSoils CRSP OfficeClub du Sahel, Agricultural Transformation and Sustainable Development117Appendix DUSAID Offices Consulted in WashingtonOffice of the Administrator• Administrator• Global Development Alliance SecretariatBureau for Latin America and the Caribbean• Central America and Mexico Regional Strategy Office• Office of EnvironmentBureau for Africa• Office of West African AffairsBureau for Policy Development and Program CoordinationBureau for Management• Office of Human Resources• Office of Information Resources ManagementBureau for Democracy, Conflict, and Assistance• Office of Food for Peace• Office of Transition InitiativesOffice of American Schools and Hospitals Abroad• Office of Human Capacity Development118 APPENDIX DBureau of Global Health• Office of Health, Infectious Diseases, and NutritionBureau for Economic Growth, Agriculture, and Trade• Office of Agriculture• Office of Energy and Information Technology• Office of Natural Resources Management• Office of Environment and Science Policy119Appendix EOther Organizations ConsultedOffice of Science and Technology PolicyOffice of Management and BudgetDepartment of State• Bureau for Oceans, Environment, and International Scientific Affairs• Office of the Science and Technology Adviser to the SecretaryCenters for Disease Control and PreventionNational Institutes of Health• Office of the Director• National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases• Fogarty International CenterEnvironmental Protection AgencyMillennium Challenge CorporationThe World Bank• Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Program• Office of the Coordinator of Scientific and Technological Affairs120 APPENDIX EUnited Nations• Executive Office of the Secretary General• United Nations Development ProgramConservation International• Center for Applied Biodiversity ScienceAssociation Liaison Office for University Cooperation in DevelopmentPATH (Program for Appropriate Technology for Health)Partnership to End Hunger in AfricaThe Nature ConservancyWorld Wildlife FundRAND CorporationBill & Melinda Gates Foundation• Global Health ProgramUnited States Energy Association, Energy Partnership ProgramInternational Foundation for Science121Appendix FReport to Congress:HealthRelated Research and DevelopmentActivities at USAIDJune 2005EXECUTIVE SUMMARYCongress requested that the U.S. Agency for International Development(USAID) provide a report describing its role in the research, development, andapplication cycle and its efforts to coordinate research and development activitieswith other agencies. This report responds to this request and provides details onthe amounts spent on research by health issue or disease, recipient, and stage ofresearch or development funded.From 2002 to 2004, USAID invested between 6 and 7 percent of its totalhealthrelated budget in research and development. In 2004, this percentage represented $155 million. That year, the largest amount of research funds was spenton HIV/AIDS related research, followed in descending order by research onfamily planning and reproductive health, research on infectious diseases, andresearch on child survival and maternal health, including polio and micronutrients. The results of USAIDsupported research have had significant public healthimpacts, starting with Oral Rehydration Salts (ORS), now used in about 85% ofchild diarrhea cases in almost half the world’s children under 5. The results ofvitamin A research now save approximately 1 million preschool aged children ayear.And, the impact of zinc, another USAID research product, on decreasingchild mortality could be as or more significant than vitamin A. By 2004, 2.5billion autodisable syringes and 900 million vaccine vial monitors, both results ofUSAIDsupported research, had been sold or distributed worldwide. USAIDfunded research has resulted in food fortification programs, making fortified122 APPENDIX Fsugar, cooking oil and flours available to the majorities of the population of manycountries. More recently, USAID research on natural family planning has resulted in the development of two new methods, both of which have shown to bevery effective when used correctly.USAID supported largescale efficacy trials of insecticide treated nets (ITNs)across Africa, which provided definitive data on the highly effective impact ofITNs for preventing malaria among the most vulnerable populations of womenand children. This report further details the impact of research in many otherareas.USAID invests in research to identify and assess key health problems affecting populations in developing countries and to develop and introduce new vaccines, tools, and approaches to help resolve these problems.The objective of almost half of USAID research activities is to find ways to“introduce” and make lifesaving interventions accessible to those most in need—children under 5, mothers, people living with or at risk of HIV/AIDS and TB, andwomen and men of reproductive age. The other objectives of USAID researchactivities are to identify or assess major public health problems and develop anew tool or approach to help resolve these problems.Other partners complement the different roles that USAID plays in the cyclefrom research to implementation.In some cases, for example research to develop a malaria vaccine, the objective of U.S. Government partners is different from that of USAID—a shorttermvaccine to protect troops versus a longterm vaccine to protect vulnerable womenand children. In the case of Oral Rehydration Salts and Vitamin A, USAID’s rolebegan with the identification of the problem and the development of the intervention, right up to wide scale introduction, working with WHO and UNICEF.USAID’s research role in yet other cases is to provide information necessaryto the private sector to carry out large scale commercialization of new productssuch as fortified foods and longlasting insecticide treated bed nets.USAID’s role in the development of microbicides, for example, is to focusresearch and development on safe, effective and acceptable microbicides to prevent HIV infection that have the appropriate cost and product characteristics foruse in developing countries and, in some cases, offer dualprotection as a familyplanning method. USAID collaborates with NIH, CDC, and FDA to develop theU.S. Government’s Strategic Plan for Microbicides.This report details research that USAID has supported and its results. Insome of the newer areas of research the report also looks at ongoing studies. Oneexample of these is a soontobe commissioned review by Brian Sharp, MedicalResearch Council, Durban, South Africa, and Christian Lengeler, Swiss TropicalInstitute, Basel, Switzerland, to compare indoor residual spraying (IRS) and ITNsacross a range of malaria transmission settings in subSaharan Africa in terms ofcosteffectiveness, impact on health measures, and operational constraints. Thereport, expected in early 2006, should provide clear, evidencebased guidance toAPPENDIX F 123National Malaria Control Programs and USAID missions on key factors to consider when selecting vector control interventions to ensure maximum public healtheffectiveness for money spent. Another example is the ongoing research on simplelowcost community care packages (warming, delayed bathing) that could reduceneonatal deaths by an average of 40 percent in low resource settings.Section IThe six research areas included in Section I account for the majority ofUSAID healthrelated research and results over the past two decades. Section Idescribes each area and explains how it was identified. It also describes the roleof USAID, its coordination with U.S. government agencies and other partners,and the main results of the research investment to date.The six research areas are:1) Vaccine development2) Maternal, newborn, and child health interventions3) Microbicides4) Contraceptive technologies5) Malaria6) Tuberculosis1. VACCINE DEVELOPMENTMalaria Vaccine: USAID’s research role is to speed the development ofmalaria vaccines to protect children and pregnant women from death andserious disease in malariaendemic areas. USAID has had a critical catalyticrole in moving the current set of vaccine candidates through the researchprocess to field trials. As a result of USAID’s investments over the years,two vaccine candidates are currently undergoing safety or efficacy trials inthe field. USAID works with DOD partners such as the Walter Reed ArmyInstitute of Research and the Naval Medical Research Center; HHS partnerssuch as the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Centers for DiseaseControl and Prevention (CDC), and the Food and Drug Administration; andthe Malaria Vaccine Initiative, a Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation fundedprogram.HIV/AIDS Vaccine: USAID’s research role accelerates the developmentand introduction of new vaccine candidates and technologies and helps linkvaccine designers with manufacturers and developingcountry sites suitablefor testing promising HIV vaccine candidates. USAID supports HIV vaccineresearch as well as policy analysis and other work to pave the way forintroducing vaccines when they become available. USAID works with the124 APPENDIX FInternational AIDS Vaccine Initiative and the Partnership for AIDS VaccineEvaluation (the U.S. government HIV vaccine coordination group) and wouldlike to be involved with the Global HIV/AIDS Vaccine Enterprise as itunfolds.Childhood Vaccines—Rotavirus and Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccines:USAID’s research role is to catalyze and coordinate clinical trials of refinedrotavirus vaccine and a largescale clinical trial of pneumococcal conjugatevaccine. USAID works with the World Health Organization (WHO),National Institutes of Health (NIH), Centers for Disease Control andPrevention (CDC), the British Medical Research Council, the London Schoolof Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the Program for Appropriate Technologyin Health (PATH), and vaccine manufacturers. USAID’s participation andinvestment in the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI)supported the selection of these two vaccines for a new approach toaccelerated vaccine development and introduction in developing countries.Vaccine and InjectionRelated Technologies: USAID anticipated the needfor technologies that could prevent syringe and needle reuse and supportedthe development and introduction of the devices now known as autodisable(AD) syringes and vaccine vial monitors (VVMs) to ensure that only potentvaccine is used. USAID works with WHO; the United Nations Children’sFund (UNICEF); PATH; Becton, Dickinson and Company; Pfizer Inc.; andGAVI. To date, 2.5 billion AD syringes and 904 million VVMs have beensold or distributed worldwide.2. MATERNAL, NEWBORN, AND CHILD HEALTH INTERVENTIONSMaternal and Neonatal Health: Since the launch of the Safe MotherhoodInitiative in 1987, USAID has supported the development and testing of newtechnologies and community and facility approaches as well as metaanalysesto improve and transform maternal and neonatal interventions. USAIDcoordinates with WHO; host governments; U.S. and developingcountryresearchers; NGOs/PVOs and universities in Nepal, Bangladesh, Egypt,Tanzania, Thailand, Pakistan, India, Peru, and Malawi; the World Bank; andthe American College of Nurse Midwives. Some USAIDsupported technologies and approaches—the homebased maternal record, for example—now are used in countries around the world, while others are still in thedevelopment and introduction stages.Oral Rehydration Salts, Oral Rehydration Therapy: USAID supportedresearch to develop and introduce oral rehydration salts (ORS) and oralrehydration therapy (ORT) to treat dehydration caused by diarrhea, especiallyAPPENDIX F 125the early development research undertaken by the International Centre forDiarrheal Disease Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B). With support fromUSAID and other donors, ORS became the cornerstone of the WHO/UNICEFProgram on Control of Diarrheal Diseases. In 33 countries containing almosthalf the world’s children under age 5, use of ORS/ORT increased from about33 percent of cases in 1990 to 85 percent by middecade. USAID recentlysupported WHO and other research partners in refining the ORS formulation.The new formulation, called reducedosmolarity ORS, further reduces theneed for intravenous therapy and is safe for treating both children and adults.UNICEF and WHO have adopted the new formulation as the global standard.Micronutrients—Zinc: USAIDsupported research built the evidence basethat led to WHO and UNICEF signing a 2004 agreement revising the protocolfor using zinc supplements to treat diarrhea. USAID is supporting work tointroduce zinc into programs and is working with host governments toaccelerate the adoption of the new recommendations for diarrhea treatment.USAID also supports product supply, guideline development, programplanning, and marketing. USAID has supported the development of zincformulations by manufacturers in a way that ensures thermostability in hotweather environments and under poor storage conditions. USAID workswith WHO, the Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of PublicHealth, ICDDR,B, local universities, and international NGOs.Micronutrients—Vitamin A: USAID supported the research that established the base of evidence for the discovery that two cents worth of vitaminA given to children every six months could reduce child mortality by 34percent and fatality from measles by more than 50 percent, as well as reducethe severity of diarrhea and malaria. USAID continues to support research onthe effects of vitamin A on maternal health and pregnancy risk. UNICEF,with procurement largely funded by the Canadian International DevelopmentAgency, now delivers 600 million to 800 million vitamin A supplementseach year, saving the lives of approximately 1 million preschool childrenevery year. More than 60 countries around the world have implementedvitamin A supplementation.Food Fortification: USAID supported assessment research on vitamin Adeficiency and anemia prevalence and the development and introductionresearch necessary for largescale food fortification programs. This researchhas included stability and acceptability tests, technology trials, and stabilitytrials and has resulted in food fortification programs that have made fortifiedsugar, cooking oils, and/or flours available to the majority of the populationsof Bangladesh, Nicaragua, Philippines, Zambia, Uganda, Eritrea, Morocco,West Bank/Gaza, and Ghana. USAID works with health, industry, and food126 APPENDIX Fministries; bureaus of standards; the World Food Program; national associationsof food producers, millers, growers, etc.; UNICEF, the Pan American HealthOrganization; the Micronutrient Initiative; and local universities.3. MICROBICIDESUSAID supports research for the development of safe, effective, andacceptable microbicides that have the appropriate cost and productcharacteristics for use by women in developing countries to prevent HIVinfection. This research program is coordinated through collaborations withother U.S. government agencies, including NIH, CDC, and FDA, as well asother bilateral and multilateral donors, and both national and internationalorganizations that are supporting or conducting activities related to microbicideresearch and development. These collaborations maximize efficiency andprogress through the coordination of scientific plans, joint priority setting,sharing of resources, and learning through new data and experience. Aboutthree quarters of USAID funding supports essential phase III clinical studiesthat are currently underway. The remaining quarter supports developingcapacity at sites for future clinical studies, research on selected secondgeneration microbicide candidates, and product introduction issues.4. CONTRACEPTIVE TECHNOLOGIESUSAID supports development research to improve existing anddevelop new contraceptive technologies and to identify and testinnovative approaches to improving the effectiveness and efficiency offamily planning (and related reproductive health) service delivery.USAID also supports introduction research to expand the variety ofeffective contraceptive methods available in USAIDsupported familyplanning programs worldwide. USAID works with the Eastern VirginiaMedical School; Family Health International; the Population Council;Georgetown University; PATH; WHO; CDC; NIH; FDA; the UnitedNations Population Fund; the U.K. Department for InternationalDevelopment; the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation; the Hewlett Packard,Rockefeller, and Buffet foundations; Pfizer Inc.; Wyeth; OrthoMcNeilPharmaceutical; Schering AG; and Organon. USAIDsupported researchhas resulted in the availability of a wider variety of new contraceptivesand improvements in the understanding of existing technology.5. MALARIAIn addition to malaria vaccine development, USAID supports researchto assess the feasibility, acceptability, safety, and impact of malariaAPPENDIX F 127prevention and treatment technologies and to monitor the spread of drugresistant malaria. USAID also supports research to develop new drugs fortreating both uncomplicated and severe malaria and new technologies forimproved home management of malaria. In the 1990s, USAID supportedearly clinical trials of artemisininbased combination therapy (ACT) inchildren in Africa. ACT is now the WHOrecommended treatment formalaria and is being rolled out throughout Africa. USAID is now fundingoperations research to evaluate the introduction of new ACT treatments insubSaharan Africa. USAID also supported groundbreaking trials ofinsecticidetreated mosquito nets (ITNs) that demonstrated they can reduceunder5 mortality from all causes by about 20 percent and reduce clinicalcases of malaria by 40 percent to 50 percent. ITNs are now being scaled upand used throughout Africa. Malaria research is carried out through a varietyof organizations, including WHO, CDC, the Medicines for Malaria Venture,the Kenan Institute of Asia, and U.S. Pharmacopeia.6. TUBERCULOSISUSAID supports research in areas critical for accelerating theintroduction and global expansion of the DOTS (directly observed treatment,short course) strategy and improving DOTS program performance. USAIDfocuses on the development, evaluation, and introduction of new diagnostics,drug regimens, and approaches that will improve the DOTS strategy and areappropriate for use in lowresource countries, including effective approachesto TBHIV coinfection. USAID’s early support of the “ProTest” approachesto TBHIV coinfection resulted in workable models for addressing coinfection that are now being scaled up in multiple countries in Africa and arealso included in the WHO and Stop TB Partnership guidance on TBHIV.USAID also supported clinical trials on TB drug regimens of the InternationalUnion Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease (the Union).The study’s results, published in October 2004, confirmed that a sixmonth course of treatment with a specific set of drugs was more effectivethan an alternate eightmonth course with other drugs. These results are nowincluded in the International Standards of Care for TB Treatment. USAID iscurrently supporting the development of new drugs in partnership with theGlobal Alliance for TB Drug Development. USAID’s TB research partnersinclude WHO; CDC; the Union; the TB Diagnostics Initiative at the SpecialProgram for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (a WHO/UNICEF/World Bank program); Johns Hopkins University; the University of Alabama,Birmingham; and the Global Alliance.128 APPENDIX FSection IIFast Facts and Trends, 20022004• USAID invests 6 to 7 percent of its total healthrelated budget in researchand development. This percentage represented approximately $112 millionin 2002, $123 million in 2003, and $155 million in 2004 (Table II.1).• The proportion of funding obligated to research ranges from around 5 percentfor child survival and maternal health (CS/MH),1 to between 5 and 10 percentfor HIV/AIDS and family planning and reproductive health (FP/RH), tobetween 10 and 15 percent for infectious diseases (ID)From 2002 to 2004, the total amount of funding for research grew from $112million to $155 million. The health issue or disease with the largest singleshare of that funding for all three years was HIV/AIDS (37%, 37%, 46%),followed in descending order by Family Planning/Reproductive Health(29%, 32%, 24%), Child Survival, Maternal Health, including Polio andMicronutrients (14%, 15%, 14%), Malaria (7%, 7%, 7%), TB (6%, 5%, 5%),and AMR, Surveillance and Other ID (7%, 4%, 3%).While USAID/Washington centrally manages the largest number of researchactivities, the proportion of research managed by USAID missions increasedfrom 15 percent of activities in 2002 to 21 percent in 2004• Introduction research is the largest share of research activities (45 percent);assessment and development research are at about the same level, around 27to 28 percent (Figure II.8).• USAID missions originate the majority of assessment research activities (60percent missions, 40 percent USAID/Washington) (Figure II.8).• USAID/Washington originates the majority of development researchactivities (75 percent USAID/Washington, 25 percent USAID missions) andintroduction research activities (65 percent USAID/Washington, 35 percentUSAID missions).• The recipients of USAID’s research investments include collaboratingagencies and partners such as grantees and contractors; universities; NGOs/PVOs; host governments; the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;the National Institutes of Health; and the Department of Defense.1This percentage is lowered by the GAVI funds included in this overall account (between $55 and$65 million)APPENDIX F 129Distribution of Total USAID HealthRelated Research Funding by Each Major Health or Disease AreaHealth or Disease Area 2002 2003 2004HIV/AIDS 37% 37% 46%Family Planning/Reproductive Health 29% 32% 24%Infectious Diseases (inclusive of 20% 16% 15%AMR/other ID, malaria, TB)Child Survival/Maternal Health 14% 15% 14%(inclusive of polio and micronutrients)Vulnerable Children 0.02% 0% 0%Total 100% 100% 100%xxAmount/Percent of Health or Disease Area Funding Used for Research, FY 200220042002 2003 2004Percent Percent Percentof Total of Total of TotalHealth or Disease Area $ Mil Funding $ Mil Funding $ Mil FundingHIV/AIDS $41 8% $46 7% $72 6%Family Planning/Reproductive $33 7% $40 9% $38 9%HealthInfectious Diseases (inclusive $23 12% $20 11% $23 11%of AMR/other ID, malaria, TB)Child Survival/Maternal $16 4% $18 5% $22 5%Health (inclusive of polio andmicronutrients)Vulnerable Children $0 0.06% 0% $1 7%Total Obligation on $112 7% $123 6% $155 7%Researchxxx131EXECUTIVE SUMMARYThis report gives a partial overview of current thinking by key donors, universities, and research organizations on development and research priorities inagricultural and natural resources management. It is intended to assist USAID inidentifying the priority topics that would warrant Agency support in order toachieve the greatest impact on smallholderoriented agricultural growth and ruraldevelopment. There is an emerging consensus within the donor community thatresearch on agricultural and natural resources management problems should playa key role in helping to meet the Millennium Development Goals (MDG). Forexample, last year’s June 2004 G8 Action Plan “recognizes the essential contribution of agricultural research to the MDGs, and calls on its members to developagricultural science and technology, in order to raise agricultural productivity,particularly in Africa.” This broad agreement about means and ends does nottranslate easily into prescriptions for funding the “best,” the most productive, orthe most profitable agricultural or NRM activities, particularly with respect toresearch. There are a wide range of potential research directions to investigate,depending upon sitespecific conditions, as well as the quality of national levelsof education and connectivity, appropriateness of enabling policies, the strengthof supporting financial, entrepreneurial, and physical infrastructure, the relativedegree of institutional strength, and donors’ funding and programmatic priorities.Appendix GUSAID Agricultural and Natural ResourcesManagement Research PrioritiesDesktop Review11International Resources Group. Agriculture and Natural Resources Management Research Priorities Desktop Review, Washington, DC, July 2005.132 APPENDIX GGlobal research themes were identified and organized by developmentorientedcriteria, resulting in four broad categories:• Macro policies that enable growth to take place;• Technologies that provide new growth opportunities;• Policies, institutions, and technologies that sustain the natural resourcebase;• Policies and institutions that enable economic growth and natural resources management to be propoor. Efforts are needed in all of these four areasto achieve sustainable results.These broad areas were then addressed differently within regions, and it wasonly within the regional context that prioritization of narrower research objectives was generally presented, as follows:• In Asia, water use and onfarm water management, income diversification through highvalue commodities, productivity of staple foods in lessfavoredareas, and natural resources management were most frequently addressed.• In Latin America and the Caribbean, access to markets by the poor, landand property rights and access to rural finance, and natural resources management were key topics.• In Central and West Asia and North Africa, water use and onfarm watermanagement, crop improvements both for staple commodities and high valuecrops, income diversification, and access to infrastructure and services, as well asnatural resources management were emphasized.• In SubSaharan Africa, greater priority was placed on markets (includingaccess for the poor and links to regional and international markets), water and soiltechnologies and practices, and crop and animal systems technologies.The main research areas that emerged as recommended opportunities are:• Human and institutional capacitybuilding• Policies and institutions that help to create progrowth environments• Resource access and broadened participation• New tools (including biotechnology) for genetic enhancement to solvethe most difficult plant and animal problems of biotic and abiotic stress and offood quality• Soil and water use and management• Staple food crops and livestock in lessfavored areas, supported by effective soil and water use and onfarm management of these resources, together withmarket development.• Income diversification through HighValued Commodities (HVC) to inAPPENDIX G 133clude fish and livestock, relevant soil/water use/onfarm management, food quality and safety, with value chains influencing respective markets.These areas are not presented in a rank order. As a group, the listed topicshave been considered for portfolio balance. They are listed individually to emphasize the importance of each topic, but several would often, if not usually beimplemented as integrated research packages to enhance likelihood of adoptionand broad impact, nearly always through partnership organizations. The specifictopics within these broad categories would be differently arrayed in each region.The team sees research in all seven areas as essential to building a researchportfolio with the ultimate goal of contributing to sustainable development thatenhances agricultural productivity while also sustaining the natural resource base.135USAID has provided the following information about its programs.HEALTHDemographic and Health Survey—HIV. For more than 30 years USAID hassupported the collection, analysis, and use of data on international population andhealth through the MEASURE project’s Demographic and Health Survey (DHS)and other data collection mechanisms. The first time an HIVtesting element wasincluded in a DHS was in Mali in 2001. The Mali Ministry of Health’s objectivein adding testing was to estimate the rate of HIV prevalence at both the nationaland the regional levels. The resulting data have provided information on nationally representative HIV seroprevalence levels that is helping guide Mali in itsresource allocation and decisions on HIV/AIDS policy and programs. Since theaddition of the testing element was both costeffective and efficient, other countries have added testing to their surveys. For example, following the survey inMali, the MEASURE DHS project added HIV testing in Zambia and the Dominican Republic.Micronutrients—Zinc. USAIDsupported research built the evidence base thatled to WHO and UNICEF signing a 2004 agreement to revise the protocol forusing zinc supplements to treat diarrhea. USAID is working with host governments to accelerate the adoption of the new recommendations for diarrhea treatment. USAID also assists with product supply, guideline development, and program planning. USAID has supported the development of zinc formulations byAppendix HExamples of USAID Support for Scienceand TechnologyRelated Programs136 APPENDIX Hmanufacturers in a way that ensures thermostability in hotweather environments and under poor storage conditions.River Blindness—Onchocerciasis. USAID joined other donors and nationalgovernments to establish the Onchocerciasis Control Program that began in 1974.In contributing $75 million to the Onchocerciasis Trust Fund, USAID became itslargest donor. In 1974, as many as 10 percent of the people in severely affectedregions were blind, and 30 percent had severe visual handicaps. Farmers hadbegun leaving their fields amid a growing realization that something associatedwith the rivers was causing blindness. The program set out to eliminate thedisease and to ensure that West African countries could continue disease monitoring after its elimination; these two goals have largely been achieved. Initiallythe control program focused on spraying of larvicide to kill black flies, but in1988 it began to distribute the antiparasite drug ivermectin, which Merck offeredfree of charge. WHO marked the end of the Onchocerciasis Control Program inWest Africa in 2002. According to WHO, 600,000 cases of the disease have beenprevented under the program, allowing 18 million people to grow up free of thethreat of river blindness. Thousands of farmers are starting to reclaim 25 millionhectares of fertile river land—enough to feed 17 million people—in areas wherethey once feared being struck blind.Safe Water System. Working with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other partners, USAID has developed systems for providing lowcost technologies to improve household drinking water. More than a billion peoplelack access to clean water, and many more drink water contaminated by unsafestorage and handling, as well as by unsafe treatment and distribution systems.The safe water system involves a pointofuse treatment technology, safe storagein specially designed containers, and improved hygiene practices. Trials by CDCsuggest that this approach can reduce the incidence of diarrhea by about 50percent. The program was important during the aftermath of the recent tsunamiwhen safe water solution and storage vessels were distributed in Indonesia, India,and Myanmar. The system has also been helpful in protecting vulnerable populations in hospitals and clinics.SoloShot Syringe. USAID supported the development by PATH (Program forAppropriate Technology in Health) of SoloShot, the first autodisposable syringefor use in developing countries. These syringes protect against the transmissionof bloodborne diseases. While other disposable syringes had been in use aroundthe world, in developing countries they were often reused without being adequately sterilized. The SoloShot is a singleuse injection device designed toinactivate automatically after a single cycle of filling and injection. The syringehas a fixed needle that automatically becomes nonreusable after a single injection. Once filled, the plunger stops and cannot be pulled back. After the vaccineAPPENDIX H 137is injected the plunger automatically locks so that neither the needle nor thesyringe can be reused. The World Health Organization called for the design ofsuch devices in 1987. These are the only such devices that UNICEF now provides. In 2004 UNICEF distributed 400 million of them.AGRICULTUREAgriculture Extension in Armenia. USAID has supported a grassroots agriculture extension partnership in Armenia, connecting several U.S. assistance programs. The School Connectivity program, for example, provides computers tosecondary schools across Armenia; these computers are used by students duringthe day and made available to the public in the evening for a small fee. Localfarmers use this equipment to communicate with researchers at the ArmenianAcademy of Agriculture and obtain practical solutions to their agriculture problems. Plant diseases and remedies are described by means of email messages,pests are photographed with digital cameras and sent directly to researchers foridentification, and sources of needed supplies are compared and discussed. Farmers obtain quick answers to their questions, and researchers keep in touch withagricultural problems that need solutions.RustResistant Wheat Varieties: Leaf rust is the most widespread disease ofspring bread wheat and is a major source of biological stress. Through a breedingprogram involving interacting genes from rustresistant varieties, the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), with USAID support,developed new varieties that have limited disease losses to insignificant levels infarm yields. One estimate is that the economic benefits from using these resistantvarieties during the period 19731997 exceeded $5.3 billion based on the value ofgrain that farmers would have lost. From another viewpoint, there were economic, health, and environmental benefits from not having to apply fungicides onthe wheat.Prediction of Forage Conditions in East Africa. A suite of technologies havebeen created to predict forage conditions in arid regions of East Africa. Suchearly warning of impending problems are made 90 to 180 days in advance ofhuman recognition of problems allowing for shifts in sizes of herds and otherstrategies to reduce livestock losses. The basis for the predictions includes simulation models that link biophysical models with satellite weather information andwith data from land monitoring stations. The area of interest provides grazing for40 million cattle, 30 million sheep, and 32 million goats.InsectResistant Potato. USAID has supported research that led to a potato thatresists the potato tuber moth, a pest causing significant damage to potatoes in thefield and in storage. This development was achieved by engineering a novel138 APPENDIX Hinsect resistant gene into a variety of potatoes grown by small holder farmers indeveloping countries. The new variety is undergoing a complete regulatory review for initial commercial release in South Africa.ENERGYPower Pool in South Africa. USAID was instrumental in creating the SouthAfrican Power Pool, the first regional power market set up outside North Americaand Western Europe. Established in 1995 under the auspices of the SouthernAfrican Development Community (SADC), the power market pools the resourcesof 12 countries with more than 200 million people. By importing and exportingenergy within the region, individual countries have been able to reduce the needto build new generation facilities. Such savings are estimated to have reached $3billion. USAID has worked closely with other donors, including the World Bank,NORAD, and SIDA, to assist in developing and managing the power pool. Donorassistance has helped reduce the technical, legal, institutional, and political barriers to trading. Previously all power trading was done with the use of bilateralcontracts that were often difficult to administer.Transmission System Planning in Southeast Europe. USAID introduced regional electric power transmission system planning to further the development ofa regional electricity market. Transmission system planning software and relatedtraining were delivered to participating countries. Transmission systems are complex, and planning is crucial when common software is used by all parties. Alsoadequate training is essential. USAID has been able to couple infrastructuredevelopment investments (providing the needed software) with human capacitybuilding. Electric power utilities in the region are now able to conduct complicated planning studies without donor assistance.Reducing Distribution Losses in the Philippines. Visayan Electric Company(VECO) developed a USAIDsponsored partnership with Portland General Electric (PGE) designed to share best practices on a voluntary basis. They carried outa joint review of how to reduce losses on an electric power distribution system.With the U.S. partner providing the technical expertise, VECO has reduced average outages per customer from 71 hours per year to 21 hours per year. It has alsoreduced the duration of the average outage by 61 percent. In doing so, VECO hasdramatically reduced its emergency response time, leading to improved deliveryof health care, public safety, and economic development.ENVIRONMENTAir Monitoring in the Czech Republic. USAID provided funding to the U.S.Environmental Protection Agency to establish an airmonitoring network andAPPENDIX H 139conduct joint research with Czech counterparts on elevated air emissions andtheir adverse affects on human health in the heavily polluted region of northernBohemia. This area, along with adjacent industrial areas of Poland and EastGermany, were known as the “Black Triangle.” The results showed that highexposures to air pollution could affect genetic material, reproductive functions,and early childhood vulnerability to infections. The Czech government thereupondecided to accelerate its program to convert home heating from coal to gas byestablishing a special allocation of 6 billion Czech crowns ($240 million at thetime) to cover consumer costs of fuel conversion.DroughtFamine Early Warning in the Sahel. The Famine Early WarningSystems Network (FEWS NET) issues alerts for 25 African countries indicatinganomalies in weather or other potential climate shocks that could result in loss ofproduction and subsequent food insecurity. Since the late 1980s, the early availability of reliable information has enabled planners in the governments, USAID,U.N. agencies, and NGOs to put into motion early decisionmaking to preparefood and survey teams to respond to impending famine threats. The countriesthemselves can field the first sets of emergency responders while modifyingpolicies to improve access to food for their citizens.141Appendix IRecent National Academies ReportsRelevant to Science and Technologyin DevelopmentImproving Birth Outcomes: Meeting the Challenge in the Developing World,Board on Global Health, 2003.Scaling Up Treatment for the Global AIDS Pandemic: Challenges andOpportunities, Board on Global Health, 2004.Saving Lives, Buying Time: Economics of Malaria Drugs in an Age ofResistance, Board on Global Health, 2004.Healers Abroad: Americans Responding to the Human Resource Crises in HIV/AIDS, Board on Global Health, 2005.Political Implications of International Graduate Students and PostdoctoralScholars in the United States, Policy and Global Affairs Division, 2005.Science and Technology in Armenia: Toward a KnowledgeBased Economy,Policy and Global Affairs Division, 2004.Growing Up Global: The Changing Transitions to Adulthood in DevelopingCountries. Division of Behavioral and Social Sciences and Education,2005.143Appendix JRecent National Academies ActivitiesRelevant to Science and Technologyin DevelopmentReview of The President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR):Implementation and Evaluation, Board on Global Health (funded by theDepartment of State).Implementation of a program of S&T Capacity Building in Africa, Policy andGlobal Affairs Division (funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation).Support for USAID Research Programs: USIsrael Cooperative DevelopmentResearch Program and the Middle East Regional Cooperation Program,Policy and Global Affairs Division (funded by USAID).Implementation of U.S.Pakistan Science and Technology CooperativeProgram, Policy and Global Affairs Division (funded by USAID).Roundtable on Natural Disasters, Division on Environment and Life Sciences(funded by a number of public and private organizations).Implementation of The Grainger Prize for a New Technology for RemovingArsenic from Drinking Water in Developing Countries, National Academyof Engineering (funded by the Grainger Foundation).Implementation of a program of Graduate Training in the United States forYoung Vietnamese Scientists and Engineers, Policy and Global AffairsDivision (funded by the Vietnam Foundation).145Appendix KPakistanU.S. Science and TechnologyCooperative Program 2005PROJECTS SELECTED FOR JOINT FUNDINGDevelopment of a Strategic Model for Improvement of ConstructionProject Management Education, Research, and Practice in PakistanSyed Mahmood Ahmed, Florida International UniversitySarosh Hashmat Lodi, NED University of Engineering and TechnologyDevelopment of Guidelines for Asphalt Pavement Recycling in PakistanGilbert Y. Baladi, Michigan State UniversityTayyeb Akram, National University of Sciences and TechnologyDevelopment of Computational Mechanics Infrastructure and HumanResources for Advancing Engineering Design Practices in PakistaniIndustryArif Masud, University of Illinois at ChicagoAbdullah Sadiq, Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Science andTechnologyEstablishment of Extrusion Center of the Institute of Food Science andTechnology, University of Agriculture, FaisalabadMian Nadeem Riaz, Texas Engineering Experiment StationFaqir Muhammad Anjum, University of Agriculture146 APPENDIX KGene Pyramiding through Genetic Engineering for Increased SaltTolerance in WheatEduardo Blumwald, University of California, DavisAnjuman Arif, National Institute for Biotechnology and Genetic EngineeringUnderstanding and Control of Plant Viral Disease Complexes in PakistanClaude M. Fauquet, Donald Danforth Plant Science CenterShahid Mansoor, National Institute for Biotechnology and Genetic EngineeringDetermination of Heavy Metals and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons inAirborne Particulates in Lahore, Pakistan, and Madison, Wisconsin, USAJames Jay Schauer, University of WisconsinMadisonTauseef A. Quraishi, University of Engineering and TechnologyAntimicrobial Resistance in Pakistan: A Program to Develop andStrengthen Capacity for Surveillance, Containment, and Diagnosisthrough PublicPrivate Sector PartnershipMary Brandt, Centers for Disease Control and PreventionRumina Hasan, The Aga Khan Medical UniversityIntensification of Forensic Services and Research at Centre for AppliedMolecular BiologyMohammad Ashraf Tahir, Strand Analytical Laboratories, LLCSheikh Riazuddin, Centre for Applied Molecular BiologyImproving the Lifestyle of Villagers in Remote Areas of the FederallyAdministered Tribal Areas of Pakistan Using Renewable EnergyJohnny Weiss, Solar Energy InternationalIshtiaq A. Qazi, National University of Sciences and TechnologyCapacity Building for Research, Education, and Training in WaterResources Management in PakistanM. Hanif Chaudhry, University of South CarolinaMuhammad Latif, University of Engineering and Technology147Appendix LDescription of USAIDRecruitment ProgramsAGENCY EXPLAINS HOW TO GET A JOB AT USAID1It’s late fall, and many graduates are wondering how to apply for work atUSAID. Here is a brief introduction to the kind of background, education, and jobexperience the Agency is looking for as it seeks to fill positions that become openeach year.USAID recruitment is a yearround process. At the Office of Human Resources, efforts focus mainly on attractingnew foreign service officers at junior andmidlevels.On the foreign service (FS) side, recruiters are looking for candidates with awide range of master’s degrees, from international relations to public health.People with law degrees and doctoral candidates can also apply.Experience is also considered. For FScandidates, overseas experience is almostalways a must. Working for the PeaceCorps, a nongovernmental organization, international organization, or forprofitcontractor overseas can provide valuable experience.1USAID Front Lines, Nov. 2005.(see www.usaid.gov/press/frontlines)The only way to apply for ajob at USAID is on the internet. Jobs are advertised onUSAID’s website at regularintervals during the year, andprospective applicants areencouraged to log on frequently.148 APPENDIX LFS candidates can apply for one or two tracks. For both programs, USAIDadvises candidates to expect to be based overseas for most of their careers.• New Entry Professional (NEP) Program. Typically, successful candidates for this midlevel track have five to seven years’ development experienceoverseas plus a master’s degree. NEPs normally spend 12–18 months in Washington, D.C., before being assigned overseas.• International Development Intern (IDI) Program. While previouswork experience is not required, most successful applicants have one to twoyears’ overseas experience. Students need to apply while in graduate school orwithin a year after completing graduate school. IDIs can expect to be assignedoverseas roughly six months after joining USAID.Potential applicants should know that the FS hiring process—from submitting an application to coming on duty—can take up to a year. Security clearance,medical clearance, and other factors can contribute to this length of time.USAID also hires many civil service employees to work in Washington,D.C. These openings are advertised on an individual basis.The Presidential Management Fellows (PMF) Program is another entry tothe civil service for people with recent master’s degrees. USAID is the secondlargest employer of PMFs in the federal government.There are also Foreign Service Limited Appointments. These are fiveyearappointments and, generally, not career tracks. USAID uses these to cover hardtofill positions.The only way to apply for a job at USAID is on the internet. Jobs areadvertised on USAID’s website at regular intervals during the year, and prospective applicants are encouraged to log on frequently.Human Flourishing inScience and TechnologyTechnology as a Mode ofRevealingFlourishinga state where peopleexperience positiveemotions, positivepsychological functioningand positive socialfunctioning, most of thetime," living "within anoptimal range of humanfunctioning."Human Flourishingan effort to achieveselfactualization andfulfillment within thecontext of a largercommunity ofindividuals, each withthe right to pursue hisor her own suchefforts.Human flourishinginvolves the rationaluse of one'sindividual humanpotentialities,including talents,abilities, and virtuesin the pursuit of hisfreely and rationallychosen values andgoals.Human civilizations and the development ofscience and technology.Human person asboth the bearer andbeneficiary ofscience andtechnology.•bearer  aperson orthing thatcarries orholdssomething.Human flourishes and finds meaningin the world that he/she builds.Human may unconsciously acquire,consume or destroy what the worldhas to offer.Science and Technologymust be treated as part of human lifethat needs reflective and meditativethinking.Meditative thinkingkind of thinkingthat thinks thetruth of being,that belongs tobeing and listensto it.Science and Technologymust beexamined fortheir greaterimpact onhumanity as aWhole.TECHNOLOGY AS A MODE OFREVEALINGMARTIN HEIDEGGERa German philosopherand a seminal thinker inthe Continental traditionof philosophy.widely acknowledged tobe one of the mostoriginal and importantphilosophers of the 20thcentury.HEIDEGGER'S VIEW ONTECHNOLOGY.He strongly opposes the view thattechnology is "a means to an end" or"a human activity."• These two approaches, which he calls,respectively, the "instrumental" and"anthropological" definitions, are indeed"correct", but do not go deep enough; ashe says, they are not yet "true."• Heidegger points out, technologicalobjects are means for ends, and are builtand operated by human beings, but theessence of technology is something elseentirely.Since the essence of a tree is notitself a tree, he points out, so theessence of technology is not anythingtechnological.What, then, is technology, if it isneither a means to an end nor ahuman activity?• Technology, according to Heideggermust be understood as "a way ofrevealing" (Heidegger 1977, 12).• Revealing is his translation of theGreek word alétheuein, which means'to discover' — to uncover what wascovered over. Related to this verb isthe independent noun alétheia, whichis usually translated as "truth," thoughHeidegger insists that a moreadequate translation would be "unconcealment."What is reality?• according to Heidegger, it is not given the sameway in all times and all cultures (Seubold 1986,356).not something absolute that human beings canever know once and for all• is relative in the most literal sense of the word — itexists only in relations.inaccessible for human beings. As soon as weperceive or try to understand it, it is not 'in itselfanymore, but 'reality for us.'How can technology be 'a wayof revealing'?1. What does this have to dowith technology?2. What does Heidegger meanwhen he says that technologyis "a way of revealing"?everything we perceive or think of orinteract with "emerges out of concealmentinto unconcealment,by entering into a particular relation withreality, reality is 'revealed' in a specificway.• technology is the way of revealingthat characterizes our time.• technology embodies a specific wayof revealing the world, a revealing inwhich humans take power overreality.• While the ancient Greeks experienced the'making' of something as 'helpingsomething to come into being' — asHeidegger explains that moderntechnology is rather a 'forcing into being'.• Technology reveals the world as rawmaterial, available for production andmanipulation.WHY IS TECHNOLOGY NOT AHUMAN ACTIVITY?• According to Heidegger, there issomething wrong with the modern,technological culture we live in today. Inour 'age of technology' reality can only bepresent as a raw material (as a 'standingreserve'). This state of affairs has notbeen brought about by humans; thetechnological way of revealing was notchosen by humans.Rather, our understanding of the world our understanding of 'being', of what itmeans 'to be'  develops through the ages.In our time 'being' has the character of atechnological 'framework', from whichhumans approach the world in acontrolling and dominating way.• Every attempt to climb out oftechnology throws us back in. Theonly way out for Heidegger is "the willnot to will".We need to open up the possibility ofrelying on technologies while notbecoming enslaved to them andseeing them as manifestations of anunderstanding of being.THE HUMAN PERSON FLOURISHING IN TERMS OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYIntroduction:Among the animals on earth, we, humans, identify ourselves as the ones who have higherintellectual capacity. We have learned that things around us hold potential when combined withother things or when used in ways that these things are innately inclined to be used. Throughtime, passionate search, experiment or even accidental encounter, a lot of things werediscovered, and we are determined to use, produce, and manipulate nature. This lessonexplains briefly the attributes and capacity of man and his role in relation to technology and tosociety. It begins with St. Augustine’s idea that human beings were created by God, theSupreme Good, and that He has endowed us with intellect and the freedom to choose what isgood and ultimately go back to Him. The journey towards God necessitates graces from Him inorder for us, humans, to choose to do and innovate things for each other and for everyone’sgood. This lessons also establishes some philosophical considerations on how technology canbe construed as a tool for higher purposes aside from the usual idea of it being the provider ofmore efficient and comfortable ways of achieving and doing things. (adoniskathleen, 2019)https://www.coursehero.com/file/39153379/STSdocx/Course materialTHE HUMAN PERSONFLOURISHING IN TERMS OFSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Technology has always been defined as a means to an end and being a human activity. It has long filled the word. Everyday routines are marked with technological advancesthat reflect what a society is good or known for. Technology has well advanced sincethe middle of the20th Century especially after the end of World War II. It is not unexpected for technologyto involve question of knowledge which lead to its formation as one of the branches ofphilosophy. This also led to the furtherance of technology based on how it is viewed andunderstood. But there is more to that. Aristotle, was born 304 B.C. an ancient Greek philosophy scientist and one of the mostsignificant thinkers and who contributed so much toscience,technology,politicaltheory,andaesthetics world;followedthat knowledge of theworld begins by looking and examining that which exists. To understand the humanperson flourishing in terms of science and technology, it is good to first examinetechnology in its essence.What is Happiness? In psychology, happiness is a mental or emotional state of wellbeing which can bedefined by, among others, positive or pleasant emotions ranging from contentment tointense joy. To behaviorists, happiness is a cocktail of emotions we experience when we dosomething good or positive. To neurologists, happiness is the experience of a flood of hormones released in thebrain as a reward for behavior that prolongs survival. The hedonistic view of wellbeing is that happiness is the polar opposite of suffering, thepresence of happiness indicates the absence of pain. Because of this, hedonists believethat the purpose of life is to maximize happiness, which minimizes misery. Eudaimonia, a term that combines the Greek words for "good" and "spirit" to describethe ideology. Eudaimonia defines happiness as the pursuit of becoming a better person.Eudaimonists do this by challenging themselves intellectually or by engaging in activitiesthat make them spiritually richer people.Aristotle> Aristotle believed that human flourishing requires a life with other people. Aristotle taughtthat people acquire virtues through practice and that a set of concrete virtues could lead aperson toward his natural excellence and happiness.> According to Aristotle, there is an end of all of the actions that we perform which we desirefor itself. This is what is known as eudaimonia, flourishing, or happiness, which is desired for itsown sake with all other things being desired on its account. Eudaimonia is a property of one'slife when considered as a whole. Flourishing is the highest good of human endeavors and thattoward which all actions aim. It is success as a human being. The best life is one of excellenthuman activity.Eudaimonia “good spirited” Coined by Aristotle Describes the pinnacle of happiness that is attainable by humans. “human flourishing” From Nicomachean Ethics (philosophical inquiry into the nature of the good life for ahuman being.)– human flourishing arises as a result of different components such asPhronesisFriendshipWealthPower In ancient Greek society, they believe that acquiring these will surely bring the seekershappiness, which in effect allows them to partake in the greater notion of what we call the Good. As time changes, elements that comprise human flourishing changed. People found means to live more comfortably, explore more places, develop more products,and make more money. Humans of today are expected to become “man of the world”. Supposed to situate himself in a global neighborhood, working side by side among institutionsand the government to be able to reach a common goal.Principles of Human Flourishing Dignity of the Human person  innate personal values or rights which demands respectfor all people, regardless of race, social class, wealth etc. Common Good  sacrificing selfinterest to provide for the basic human needs ofeveryone makes the whole community flourish. Preferential Option for the Poor  when decisions are made by first considering the poor. Subsidarity  when all those affected by a decision are involved in making it. Universal Purpose of Goods  the Earth's resources serve every person's needs,regardless of who "owns" them. Stewardship of Creation  duty to care for the Earth as a (Godgiven) gift is a personalresponsibility for the common good. Promotion of Peace  everyone has the duty to respect and collaborate in personalrelationships, and at national and global levels. Participation  everyone has the right and the duty to take part in the life of a society(economic, political, cultural, religious) Global Solidarity  recognition that we are all interconnected, part of one human family.Different Conceptions of Human FlourishingEastern Focus is communitycentric Individual should sacrifice himself for the sake of society Chinese Confucian system Japanese Bushido Encourage studies of literature, sciences, and art for a greater causeWestern More focused on the individual Human flourishing as an end Aristotelian view Aims for eudaimonia as the ultimate goodScience, Technology and Human Flourishing Every discovery, innovation, and success contributes to our pool of human knowledge. Human’s perpetual need to locate himself in the world by finding proofs to traceevolution. Elicits our idea of selfimportance Technology is a human activity we excel in as a result of achieving science. Good is inherently related to the truth.SELECTED VIEWS ON TECHNOLOGY It has been said they there are many views or ways as to how technology is understood.These philosophies contributed on how technology is understood and utilized by thesociety. Some of it will be discussed briefly below.TECHNOLOGICAL PEMISSIMISM This view is extremely supported by French philosopher Jacques Ellul (19121994). Technological Pessimism holds that technology is progressive and beneficial in manyways, it is also doubtful in many ways. It is said that technology is a means to an end butthis views, technology has become a way of life. Technique has become a frameworkwhich human cannot escape. It has introduced ways on how to make things easy. Ellul'spessimistic arguments are: (1) Technological progress has a price,(2) technologicalprogress creates more problems, (3) technological progress creates damaging effects,and (4) technological progress creates unpredictable devastating effects. Although Ellul has strongly spoken of his arguments, they are still found to be weakand not true at all times. Like when he said that technological progress can create moreproblems than it solves, he seems to have underestimated the objective decisions atechnicians, and other technological agencies makes regarding the technology wherethey weigh the good and bad effects it can have in the society.TECHNOLOGICAL OPTIMISM This view is strongly supported by technologist and engineers and also by ordinarypeople who believe that technology can alleviate all the difficulties and provide solutionsfor problems that may come. It holds that even though technological problems mayarise, technology will still be the solutions to it. The extreme version of this philosophy istechnocratism which holds technology as the supreme authority on everything.EXISTENTIALISM The main concern of this view is the existence or the mode of being of someone orsomething which is governed by the norm of authenticity. This view basically investigatethe meaning of existence or being and is always faced with the selection must make withwhich the existence will commit himself to. Martin Heidegger, a philosopher who was briefly introduced in Unit 1is one of the mostknown supporters of this philosophy. He did not stop defining what technology is but hasdealt with its essence. To Heidegger, the real essence of technology lies in enframing,the gathering of the setting upon which challenges man to bring the unconcealed tounconcealment and this is a continuous revealing. The next section will further discussthe view of Heidegger that technology is a way of revealing.MARTIN HEIDEGGER ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYMartin Heidegger (18891996), a wellknown German philosopher, examined the two usualdefinitions of technology; means to an end and a human activity, because he believed that thiskind of confusing and there are question to it that we easily overlook. These two definitionscannot be separated from each other. He called it the instrumental and anthropologicaldefinition of technology or simply means by which the human ends are realized. To Heidegger,this may not be a false definition but it is a misleading one because this limits our thinking.THE INSTRUMENTAL DEFINITION OF TECHNOLOGY According to Heidegger, the instrumental definition of technology encourages us to viewtechnology from different periods of time as not having fundamental differences. But heclaimed that this does not show the true essence of technology. He explained that whiletechnology is geared towards meeting a human need, still there is a difference betweenolder handicraft technologies with modern technology. As it is, "a saw mill on a secludedvalley of the Black Forest is a primitive means compared with the hydroelectric plant onthe Rhine River” (Heidegger,1977,p.I). Heidegger also argued that “technology is by nomeans technological" and should not be seen as merely neutral. The problem beginswhen humans see it only as a means to an end and disregard the fact that there is agood technology and a bad technology Another problem Heidegger saw in the instrumental definition of technology is that itonly invites man to a continual desire to master it which unconsciously may be makingtechnology go out of hand. Heidegger said," Everything depends on our manipulatingtechnology in the proper manner as a means. We will, as we say, 'get' technology'spiritually in hand'. We will master it. The will to mastery becomes the more urgent themore technology threatens to slip from human control." (Heidegger, 1977,p.I) with this,the argued that the problem does not fall on making technology better but on how mansets upon technology, his thoughts that makes him blind to the real essence oftechnology. For Heidegger, this correct definition of technology is insufficient as it does not bring outits real essence. He said, "In order that we may arrive at this, or at least come close to it,we must seek the true by way of the correct. We must ask: what is the instrumentalitself? Within what do such things as means and end belong? (1977,p.2) In answeringthese question, Heidegger arrived at a discussion of causality which to him in realityinitially involves four ways that leads for something to exist or to be "caused".ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSESHeidegger further studied Aristotle's Four causes and illustrated it using a silverchalice which hesaid owes its make up from the four causes.1. Causa materialis or the material cause The material by which the silver chalice was made of silver.2. Causa Formalis or the formal cause The form of the shape that gave the silver chalice its image.3. Causa Finalis or the final cause The purpose or the primary use by which the silver chalice was made for to beused during the Holy Communion as a vessel for the wine that represent theblood of Christ4. Causa Efficient or the Efficient CauseThe agent that has caused for the silver chalice to come about: the silversmith.HEIDEGGER’S TECHNOLOGY AS A WAY OFREVEALINGHeidegger believed that the genuine substance or the real essence of technology is found inenframing. This is the continuous bringing forth into unconcealment that which is concealed.This is a nonstop revealing. Heidegger saw technology as a way of revealing and continues todemand for something to be bought out into the open. This bringing forth into the open is a twoway relationship: the concealed is calling out for someone to set upon it and bring it tounconcealment and the one who receives the call sets upon and acts upon to unconceal theconcealed.To further illustrate this, he gave some examples through contrasting ancient and moderntechnology. First he talked about the ancient windmill which only relies on the wind blowing anddoes not store energy which can be for immediate use and can also be stored up for future use.Second, was about the peasant planting seeds who only waits for the bringing forth of theplanted seed because there is no challenge set upon soil. Modern technology of cultivation onthe other hand, challenged the field that has caused for agriculture to be revolutionized. Now,food is not only produced for immediate use but can be stored as well for future use and couldcater more population. Third, is about the wooden bridge is built to join river for banks forhundreds of years without challenges being set upon the river. While on the other hand, thehydroelectric plant that was set on Rhine River dammed the river into the hydroelectric plant sothat electrical energy can be stored and distributedTHE MODE OF REVEALING IN MODERN TECHNOLOGYHeidegger explained that technology as a mode of revealing does not stop and continues to beseen in modern technology but not in the bringingforth sense. This is a nonstop revealing.Modern technology is revealed by challenging nature, instead of bringing forth, it is setting uponchallenges or demands on nature in order to: Unlock and expose. It carries the idea that nature wills not reveal it unlesschallenge is set upon it. This is true with the hydroelectric plant set uponthe Rhine River which unlocked the electricity concealed in it. Stock piles for future use. As technology is a means to an end, it aims to meetfuture demands; the electricity produced by the hydroelectric plant set upon theRhine River is being stored for future use in the community. Modern technologiesare now able to get more from nature by challengingit. As Heidegger (1997) said, "Such challenging happens in that energyconcealed in nature in unblocked is transformed, what is transformed is storedup, what is stored up is distributed , and what is distributed is switched aboutever a new"THE ESSENCE OF TECHNOLOGY The continuous revealing takes place as man allows himself to be an agent in the settingupon of challenges to nature but Heidegger(1977) argues that this is not more humandoing. Man is able to set upon which was already unconcealed as he responds to thecall of unconcealment but "when man, investigating, observing , pursues nature as anarea of his own conceiving, he has already been claimed by a way of revealing thatchallenges him to approach nature as an object of research, until even the objectdisappears into the objectlessness of standingreserve. This gathering of the settingupon which challenges man to bring the unconcealed tounconcealment is called enframing with which according to Heidegger, also shows theessence of modern technology. Enframing is basically putting in order whatever ispresented to the man who sets upon the unconcealed but it is a twoway relationship:man cannot set himself upon unconcealment without unconcealment's call and theunconcealed will not going to unconcealment without the man responding to its call. Thismakes modern technology not a mere human doing and with this Heidegger argued thatthe essence of technology lies in enframing.THE DANGER OF THE NONSTOP REVEALING As said earlier, the mode of revealing does not stop in modern technology. It continuallycalls man to respond to what is presented to him or to the demand for a better andefficient means to an end. With this comes the continuous challenging forth for theunconcealed to be unconcealed even more. Here lies the danger that Heidegger talkedabout. Revealing opens up a relationship between man and the word but an opening up ofsomething means a closing down of something which means as something is revealed,another is concealed. An example given by Heidegger on this "the rise of a causeeffectunderstanding of reality closes" off an understanding of God as something mysteriousand holy: God is reduced to 'the god of the philosophers"(Cerbone,2008).THE SOCIETY IN THE FACE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYWhen one looks around him now, he will see that man tends to find his happiness in theworks of modern technology. Smart phones, tablets, laptops that come in different shapes andsizes with distinct features seem to be the measure of man's value. Social media has alsoaffected the life on many. Face to face social interactions are being lessened and people keepworking hard to update their gadgets. There seems to be no contentment as every time a newproduct is released, man finds another need that can only be answered by a new product.These new products also tend to replace man in the society as the demand for manual labor isbecoming less and less because of the availability of machineriesThe human condition is not of without hope. Heidegger argued that this can beprevented if man will not allow himself to be overwhelmed with the enframing that he was setupon, but he pause for a while and reflect on the value of what is presented before him. Abalance has to be struck between technology being instrumental and anthropological. One hasto understand that technology does not only concern the means but also the end as one proverbgoes, "The end does not justify the means" For Heidegger, the solution for this is that manwould not be controlling and manipulative of what he was set upon but to also allow nature toreveal itself to him. With this, according to Heidegger , man will have free relationship withtechnology.Referenceshttps://www.academia.edu/41160955/THE_HUMAN_PERSON_FLOURISHING_IN_TERMS_OF_SCIENCEJaivy Marie Dy December 2, 2019https://prezi.com/p/xbdd0uu9dcz/thehumanpersonflourishingintermsofscienceandtechnology/Irish Nicole RouraUpdated Jan. 24, 2019https://www.slideshare.net/annaestardo/bspstspt4anna estardo Aug 9, 2018Introduction to Good lifeThe Good lifeWatch Video: What is "the good life"?https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vSjghuddlQkIn Ancient Greece, the need to understand the world and reality was bound with the need tounderstand the self and the good life.For PlatoThe task of understanding the things in the world runs parallel with the job of truly getting into what willmake the soul flourish. In an attempt to understand reality and the external world, man must seek tounderstand himself.For Aristotle There is a definitive distinction between the theoretical and practical sciences. Theoretical disciplines include logic, biology, physics, metaphysics, etc. Practical disciplines include ethics and politics. He stated that the “truth” is the aim of the theoretical sciences and the “good” is the end goal ofthe practical ones. Every attempt to know is connected in some way in an attempt to find the “good”.Aristotle and How We All Aspire for a Good LifePlato He thought that things in this world are not real and are only copies of the real in the world offorms. For him, change is so perplexing that it can only make sense if there are two realities:o World of Matter – things are changing and impermanento World of Forms – entities are only copies of the ideal and the models He recognized change as a process and as a phenomenon that happens in the world and isconstant. He also claims that despite the reality of change, thing remain and they retain their ultimate“whatness”. He was convinced that reality is full of seemingly contrasting manifestations of change andpermanence.Aristotle He is the first thinker who dabbed into the complex problematizing of the end goal of life:happiness. He puts everything back to the ground in claiming that this world is all there is to it and that thisworld is the only reality we can all access. He believes that change is a process that is inherent in things. He claims that happiness is the be all and end all of everything that we do.Happiness = Human Flourishing A kind of contentment in knowing that one is getting the best out of life. A kind of feeling that one has maxed out his potential in the world, that he has attained the cruxof his humanityHappiness as the Goal of a Good LifeAccording to John Stuart Mill In the 18th century, Mill declared the Greatest Happiness principle by saying that an action isright as far as it maximizes the attainment of happiness for the greater number of people. Individual happiness of each individual should be prioritized and collectively dictates the kind ofaction that should be endorsed.Materialism Atomist in Ancient Greece were the first materialists. Democritus and Leucippus led a school whose primary belief is that the world is made up of andis controlled by the tiny indivisible units in the world called atomos or seeds. In terms of human flourishing, matter is what makes us attain happiness.Hedonism This school of thought led by Epicurus see the end goal in life in acquiring pleasure. Life is about obtaining and indulging in pleasure because life is limited. Their mantra is “Eat, drink, and be merry for tomorrow we die.” They do not believe in the notion of afterlife.Stoicism Also led by Epicurus, it espoused the idea that to generate happiness, one must learn todistance himself and be apathetic. For them, happiness can only be attained by a careful practice of apathy. They adopt the fact that some things are not within their control.Theism They use God as a fulcrum of their existence. The ultimate basis of happiness for them is the communion with God. The world where we are in is only just a temporary reality where we have to maneuver aroundwhile waiting for the ultimate return to the hands of God.Humanism They espouse the freedom of man to carve his own destiny and to legislate his own laws, freefrom the shackles of a God that monitors and controls. For them, man is literally the captain of his own ship. This is the spirit of most scientists who thought that the world is a place and a space for freelyunearthing the world for seeking ways on how to improve the lives of its inhabitants.Summary Throughout history, man has worked hard in pointing out what amounts to a good, happy life. At present, we see multitudes of schools of thought that all promise their key to findinghappiness. Science and technology has been at the forefront of man’s attempt at finding happiness. The only question at the end of the day is whether science is taking the right path towardattaining what it really means to live a good life.about more on science technology andsocietyand in this particular video we're goingto tacklethe topic on the human personflourishingin terms of science and technologyso in this topic we may ask the questionwell what is happinessokay so for you what is happiness foryou so in psychologyhappiness is a mental thing orit's an emotional state shall we say ofwellbeing which can be defined bypositive or pleasant emotions rangingfrom contentmentto intense joy so that is inin the field of psychology that is howthey defineum happiness is two behaviors therespecifically happiness is a cocktail ofemotionsokay shall we say we experience thatwhen we do something goodor positive okay but to a morescientificyou know um perspective of it toneurologists shall we sayhappiness is the experience of a floodof hormonesreleased in the brain as a reward forbehaviorthat prolongs survival okay so that'sum what happiness is in different umbranchesof sciences or study so the quest nextquestion is that i want to ask you isthatis happiness a destination or is it ajourneylet's say you right so there are twomain views when welook at happiness the first view hereis what we call the hedonistic view thethis hedonistic view of wellbeing isthat happinessis the opposite the complete opposite ofsufferingokay so the presence of happinessindicates that there is an absenceof pain okay so that's how they defineand for headness what happiness isbecause of this hedonists believe thatthe purpose of lifeis to maximize happiness and minimizethe bad things or shall we call thatmiseryokay in contrary with a hedonistic viewokay we have also one kind of happinesswhich we will calleudaimonia this is a term that combinesthe greek wordsgood and spirit we get good in spirit todescribethis ideology of what eudaimonia is soeudaimonia defines happiness as thepursuitof becoming a better person there isthe pursuit of becoming a better personso you the monists shall we call themdo this by challenging themselvesintellectually or engaging in activitiesthat make them spiritually richer richerpeople so let's talk about more oneudaimonia again it'sfrom greek words good in spirit soum from its word itself so we can saythat eudaimonia shall we say it's goodspirited okay fromfrom the word itself so it wasoriginally coined byaristotle okay and this describes thepinnacle of happiness that is attainablefor us humans it is also oneum very important concept of humanflourishingthat is eudaimonia so to compareand uh you know see the the perspectiveofhedonists the hedonia and the eudaimoniai will present this graph here okaypicture not mineso as you can see here in this in thisumyaxis and this y variable um feel goodthis is headerness what they wantso when you feel good it's either youwill enjoy the sweet lifeor the fulfilled life either wayum if it's not so you'll go and get thevoid and the dry lifefor the you demonia if you felt thepurposeyou will have the fulfilled life andyou'll have the dry lifeor the dried life rather so combiningthemthe hedonia and the eudaimonia you willhave the fulfilled lifein this quadrant here shall we say okayso that's the fulfilled lifeso according to aristotle the one thatcoined the wordthere is an end of all the actions thatwe perform which we desirefor itself we call that eudaimonia againit's also called flourishing orhappinesssimple as it is which is desired for itsown sakewith all the other things being desiredokayyour ammonia is a property of one's lifewhen considered as a whole flourishingis the highest goodof human endeavors and then towards withwith all actions aim it is successas a human being and the best life isonewith excellence in the human activitythat's what thethe the one that that uh you willexperienceif you reach this state of theeudaimoniaokay and then this is also calledflourishing okayso specifically since we are humanbeings we will call thishuman flourishing okay so thiseudaimoniaconcept this human flourishing came fromthe nicoma nicomachean ethics so this isthese arephilosophical inquiry into the nature ofgood life for a human beingthis is written actually by aristotle'sson nico marcus that's whyfrom the name nicomachean ethics sohuman flourishing arises as a result ofdifferent componentssuch as number one we have four furnacesthis is the habit of making the rightdecisions and taking the right actionsinto contextand the pursuit of excellence for thecommon good okay so we called it fromfurnaces this is one of the areas okayor the resultsum of the human of human exploration wealso have friendship as onewealth is one and then power also one sowe have fourokay furthermore umto further our ourtopic in human flourishing in theancient greek societythey believe that acquiring this willsurely bring the seekershappiness complete happiness which ineffect allows them to partake in greaternotionof what we call the good okay the goodas time changes elements that comprisehuman flourishinghave changed we know that people foundmeans to live more comfortably exploremore places develop more products andmake moremoney which is of course one veryimportantpart now of our daily lives humans ofthe day are expected to becomethe man of the world because we knowthatwe are little by little being you knowbecomingglobalized supposed to situate himselfin a global neighborhood the one that isaidworking side by side among institutionsand the government to be able to reach acommon goalnow this times these times competitionas a means of survival has become apassewhich means it's outdated anymore okayand coordination is a new trend meaninghelping with each otheryou know um cooperationokay and talking communication with withothersso that's a new trend instead ofcompetition this time these daysokay and after this slide we're going tohave this a little bit of comparisonof the eastern and western conceptionregarding societyand the human flourishing so we're goingto compare the eastern that isasia or shall we say um specificallychina and theother parts here um asia and then thewestern partis you know europe so for the easternconceptionwhat is their perspective in societyand the human flourishing their mainfocus actually is communitycentricso their their main goal is to have thiscommunity as a wholeindividuals should sacrifice for himselffor the sake of society that's howeasterns okay eastern people look atsociety in human flourishing at timesum just say for examples are the chineseconfusion systemthe japanese bushido and these encouragestudies of literaturesciences and art for greater coregreater causeso just take note eastern conception ismade mainlyfor community centric compared to thewestern conceptionwhich is more focused on individual aswe can seemore of our discussion in in humanflourishing especially in eudaimoniacame from the western civilization fromaristotleso yeah to be to be very clearwe talked about human flourishing as anend for the western culturewe have this aristotelian viewokay because arizona aristotle ratheris the one that gave us the eudaimoniain the new commandingethics from his son nicomachusso aims for eudaimonia as the ultimategoal for the western conceptionso we can see here some um comparisoncompared to eastern and the westernconception so we haveagain eastern is focus focusing on thecommunitywestern is based on individualokay so what are the main techtakeouts in this lesson in sciencetechnology and the human flourishing solet's have the lastparts of the slide every discoveryinnovation and successcontributes to our pool of humanknowledge okayright now technically technicaltechnically we call this now researchyou know in order for us to addsomething to that body of knowledgehumans perpetual need to locate himselfthe world by finding proofs to traceevolutionelicits our idea sorrywhat's that okay elicits our idea ofselfselfimportanceand we have technology is a humanactivity nowwe excel in as a result of achievingscience so this isum said by hideger okay this ishe is a german philosopher um martinhitiger and we're going to talk more ofhim in the next video actuallyso here good is inaudible truthokay again good is inherently related tothe truthso that's it thank you for watching thisvideoin the human person flourishing in termsof science and technology so this isstill part of ourscience technology science technologysociety playlistThe Human Person Flourishing in Terms of Science and Technology TOPIC TITLE: THE HUMAN PERSON FLOURISHING IN TERMS OFSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYLEARNING OBJECTIVES:At the end of the topic session, the students should be able to:LO9: Analyze the human condition in order to deeply reflect andexpress philosophical ramifications that are meaningful tothe student as a part of society; andLO10: Evaluate human flourishing visàvis the progress of scienceand technology so that the student can define forhimself/herself the meaning of the good life.MATERIALS/EQUIPMENT:o Computer with speakerso LCD projectoro Files (04 The Human Person Flourishing in Terms of Scienceand Technology)• 04 LCD Slides 1.ppsx• 04 Skills Checklist 1.pdf• 04 Activity 1.pdf• 04 Readings 1.pdf• 04 Readings 2.pdf• 04 Readings 3.pdf• 04 Task Performance 1.pdf• 04 Teaching Materials 1.pdf• 04 Teaching Materials 2.pdf• 04 Video 1.mp4• 04 Video 2.mp4• 04 Worksheet 1.pdf• 04 Worksheet 2.pdf• AnswerGarden.pdfo Software requirements• MS PowerPoint• Windows/VLC Media PlayerTOPIC PREPARATION:o The instructor is encouraged to research for materials thatwill help supplement the topics in this session.o Ask the students to download the required readings andhandouts for the module prior to the first session.o For the module vocabulary, the instructor MUST instruct thestudents to highlight the unfamiliar/difficult terms/phrases inthe readings and look for their meaning in their dictionariesor from the Web.o For the miniforum, seek speakers that can talk abouttechnology and human flourishing ahead of time. It is best toThe Human Person Flourishing in Terms of Science and Technology tap local personalities or alumni that can engage the studentsabout the topic.o Ensure that the Skills Checklist for the period is accomplishedand submitted by the students before the Midterm Exam.PRESENTATION OVERVIEW:A. Introduction 20 minB. Instructional InputTechnology as a Way of Revealing 30 minAnalyze and reflect on how technology brings to light ourcomplex humanityHuman Flourishing 60 minRelate human flourishing with the advancement of scienceand technologyC. Generalization 20 minD. Application 45 minE. Learning Management System 5 minTotal duration 180 minTOPIC PRESENTATION:A. Introduction1. Present 04 Video 1 to the class. After the presentation, ask thestudents the following questions:a. Do you have body parts that currently require a visit tothe doctor or perhaps surgery?b. What could have affected the functioning of these bodyparts?c. How would you feel about the possibility of regeneratingthese defective body parts?2. Present Slide 1 of 04 LCD Slides 1 to give them an overview of thetopics for this session. Tell them that with centuries of humanflourishing, science and technology progresses at the same time.3. Present Slide 2 and let the students ponder on the comparison ofthe two (2) images.4. Let them compare the two (2) images by asking the followingquestions:a. What did you notice in the two (2) images?Slide 1The Human Person Flourishing inTerms of Science and Technology Technology as a Way of Revealing Human FlourishingSlide 2The Human Person Flourishing in Terms of Science and Technology b. What is the most striking difference between them?c. What could have affected the development of thestorage size of computers? How has this particulardevelopment affected society in return?5. Let them analyze how computer technology has changed for thepast decades. Tell them that as societies develop, so willtechnology, and the latter only reveals our humanity.B. Instructional Input1. The first session of Week 6 will be spent in the following manner:Technology as a way of Revealinga. Show Slide 3 to present Newton’s original reflectingtelescope and the James Webb telescope.The James Webb telescope is the world’s largest spacetelescope and is expected to capture views of thedimmest and oldest galaxies in the universe and gaze intocloudy nebulas where stars and planetary systems areformed (Wray, 2017).It is expected to be launched in space by 2019 if all testsprove successful, and will serve as NASA’s “premierobservatory” for the next decade.b. Briefly discuss the timeline found on Slides 45, showinghow the study of cosmology progressed from the time ofthe Greeks. Refer the students to 04 Readings 1 and use04 Teaching Materials 1 for discussion points. Then, askone (1) student to relate the advancement in technologyand the understanding of the cosmos.c. Then, ask them of their personal definition of the wordtechnology. Once they have answered the question,present Slide 6 and let the students ponder on thedisplayed text. Ask the students what the text meant,based on the article they read from 04 Readings 2.d. The students will probably give various definitions oftechnology but guide the discussion towards its classicaldefinition, as seen on the first two (2) bullets on Slide 7.Explain that according to Martin Heidegger, the two (2) 600  130 BCE1543 AD1668 AD1905 AD 1923 1937Greeks were thefirst todevelopastronomyinto atheoreticalscienceCopernicusproposedtheheliocentricview of the UniverseSir Isaac Newtoninventedthe firstreflectingtelescopeAlbertEinsteinintroducesspecialTheory of RelativityEdwin Hubbleprovedthatgalaxiesareseparatesystemsoutside ourown Milky WayFirst radiotelescopebuilt in the USA by Grote ReberIsaac Newton’s Original Reflecting TelescopeSource: www.horizon2020projects.comJames Webb Telescope – the largestand latest space telescope from NASASlide 5 1957 A.D.1969 A.D.1977 A.D.1990 A.D.1992 A.D.2017 A.D.RussianSputnik 1satellitebecomes thefirst man made objectto orbit theEarth marking thebeginning ofspace ageNeil Armstrongand Buzz Aldrin walk onthe Moonas part ofthe Apollo11 missionVoyager 1spacecraftlaunched toexplore theouter solarsystemThe HubbleSpaceTelescope(HST) isput intoorbit fromspaceshuttle DiscoveryRadioastronomer Wolszczanand Frailannouncethediscoveryof the firstdefinitivedetectionofexoplanetsThe James Webbtelescope wascompletedafter 20years ofdevelopment • Technology is a means to an end.• Technology is a human activity.• Technology itself is a contrivance — inLatin, an instrumentum.= “Technology is a way of revealing.If we give heed to this, thenanother whole realm for theessence of technology will openitself up to us. It is the realm ofrevealing, i.e., of truth.”– Martin HeideggerSource: thephilosophersmail.comThe Human Person Flourishing in Terms of Science and Technology definitions belong together (show the third bullet). Askstudents for examples of old and modern technology andtell them to explain how these are both means to an endand a human activity.e. Using Slide 8, further the discussion by mentioning thataccording to Aristotelian philosophy, the meaning of athing (like technology) can only be understood when wehave grasped its cause. To explain these four (4) causes,give the chalice used by a priest during mass as anexample.Causa materialis  The material cause: “that out ofwhich”, e.g., the material out of which a silver chalice ismade. Why must silver or wood be chosen as the primarymaterial for the chalice?Causa formulis  The formal cause: “the form”, “theaccount of whatitistobe”, e.g., the shape into whichthe material is fashioned (shape of the chalice). Why must the chalice be shaped that way, in relationto the occasion being celebrated?Causa finalis  The final cause/purpose: “the end, that forthe sake of which a thing is done”, e.g., the chalice ismade for the holy rite of communion. The chalice is made for a particular kind of activity,and its existence (as sacrificial vessel) is determinedby this context.Causa efficiens  The efficient cause: “the primary sourceof the change or rest”, e.g., the artisan, or the silversmithwho crafts the chalice. The silversmith is not just seen as the agent thateffects the production of the chalice, but also theone responsible for the “revealing” of the chalicefrom the original material.f. Ask the students again if their definition of technologyhas changed after learning the four (4) causes. PresentSlide 9 to show Heidegger’s idea of the essence ofmodern technology.g. You may first give the examples below (using Slide 10),then ask the students to give some examples ofenframing in their daily lives.You may give the river as an example for enframing.When an engineer sees a river, s/he may perceive it as a causa materialiscausa formuliscausa finaliscausa efficiensFOUR (4) CAUSES TO EXPLAIN THE KNOWLEDGE OF A THING ACCORDING TO ARISTOTLESource: quitwining.com• Technology is fundamentally ENFRAMING.• "Enframing" is a phenomenon in which our perspective isframed: we only notice or care about or pay attention to whatcan be done quickly or results in an efficient and furtheruseable product (Cunning, 2015).THE HUMAN PERSON FLOURISHING IN TERMS OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY LESSON OBJECTIVES At the end of this lesson, the students should be able to: identify different conceptions of human flourishing; determine the development of the scientific method and validity of science; and critic human flourishing visàvis progress of science and technology to be able to define for themselves the meaning of a good life. HUMAN FLOURISHING Eudaimonia, literally “good spirited,” is a term coined by renowned Greek philosopher Aristotle (385323 BC) to describe the pinnacle of happiness that is attainable by humans. This has been translated into “human flourishing” Human flourishing is defined as being “good spirited” in the classical Aristotelian notion. It arises as a result of different components such as phronesis (Greek term for wisdom or intelligence), friendship, wealth, and power. In the Ancient Greek society, they believe that acquiring these qualities will surely bring the seekers happiness, which in effect allows them to partake in the greater notion of what we call the GOOD. As times change, elements that comprise human flourishing changed, which are subject to the dynamic social history as written by humans. Our concept of human flourishing today proves to be different from what Aristotle originally perceived then humans of today are expected to become a “man of the world”. Competition as a means of survival has become out of date; coordination is the new trend. Western civilization tends to be more focused on the individual Eastern civilization are more communitycentric. The Chinese and the Japanese encourage studies of literature, sciences, and art, not entirely for oneself but in service of a greater cause. The Greek Aristotelian view, on the other hand, aims for eudaimonia as the ultimate good. Flourishing borders allowed people full access to cultures that as a result, very few are able to maintain their original philosophies. It is in this regard that we would tackle human flourishingin a global perspective and as a man of the world. SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND HUMAN FLOURISHING • According to Heidegger “ Technology is a human activity that we excel in as a result of achieving science” The end goals of both science and technology and human flourishing are related, in that the good is inherently related to the truth. The following are two concepts about science which ventures its claim on truth. SCIENCE AS METHOD AND RESULTS For the most part, science’s reputation stems from the objectivity brought upon by an arbitrary, rigid methodology whose very character absolves it from any accusation of prejudice. Such infamy effectively raised science in a pedestal untouchable by other institutions its sole claim to reason and empiricismgarnering supporters who want to defend it and its ways. General idea of how to do science: Observe Determine the problem Formulate hypothesis Conduct experiment Gather and analyze Formulate conclusion and provide recommendation TECHNOLOGY AS A WAY OF REVEALING Comparing the lives of the people before and now will make anyone realize the changes that happened in society not just in terms of culture, language, or rights but more importantly, changes in people’s way of life due to the existence of science and technology. • The term “generation gap” is attributed mainly to the changes brought about by technology. Although the original idea for technology is be comfortable in using the different kinds of technology, mostly those who belong to the older generation think that these technologies are too complicated to operate. The Human Condition Before Common Era • Our early ancestors’ primal need to survive paved way for the invention of several developments. Gifted with brains more advanced than other creatures, humans are able to utilize abundant materials for their own ease and comfort. Homo erectus have been using fire to cook and marked the era of Stone Age Homo sapiens humans began to sharpen stones as one would a knife; an example of this simple machine is wedge. Changes in their protective covering out of necessity, and gradually, added more to their garments. What does this tell of them and their philosophies? Were they perhaps proud to show off their hunt and how good of a hunter they were? Were they concerned with social standing and stratification? How about the meaning of life? Were they also curious on finding explanations to certain phenomena? It seems that they have found their answer in the person of religion through different figures in honor of some deity. Different tribes have different gods. Nevertheless, it can be positively inferred that like the people of today, our ancestors also found the need to explain things in a way that makes sense to them. They quickly realized that there are events outside of their control and attempted to justify things as being a work of a supernatural being. The Human Condition in the Common Era For a long time, humans were content with their relationship with nature. Earliest case of manmade extinction occurred over 12 000 years ago, possibly brought upon by hunting and territorial disputes. The Holocene extinction, also called the sixth extinction or more aptly Anthropocene extinction, occurred from as early as between 100 000 to 200 000 years up to the present. It pertains to the ongoing extinction of several speciesboth flora and fauna due to human activity. People then had a new objectivegather as much products as possible. They have to turned to wealth as one of their goals as humans and ultimately as civilizations, for they perceived that those who have many, live comfortably and thus are generally happier than those who do not have sufficient wealth. Thus, they began to hunt, farm and produce things with prospect of profit. Humanity became more complex. The primary goal was not merely to survive, but to live the good life. Technology has been instrumental in all of these because in searching for the good life, people were able to come up with creations that would make life easier, more comfortable, and more enriching. Positionwise, the humans of today are much better off compared to humans several centuries ago. Advancements in medicine, technology, health, and education ushered in humanity’s best yet, and show no sign of stopping. Below are some of the notable comparisons then and now: 1. Mortality Rate 2. Average Lifespan 3. Literacy Rate 4. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) The Essence of Technology Humanity has indeed come a long way from our primitive ways, and as a general rule, it is said that we are more “developed” than we were before. Modern humans are reliant on technology in their search for the good life. We see ways and means from nature to utilize and achieve growth a goal that we believe would bring forth betterment. It assumes that it is instrumental in achieving a goal in mind, that it is a purposeful, deliberate craft humans steer in order to reach some greater good. One philosopher by the name of Martin Heidegger identify that technology can either be perceived as first a means to achieve man’s end and second, that which constitutes human activity. The second perspective paints technology in such a way that each period reveals a particular character regarding man’s being. Rather than thinking that humans have a clear idea of what to expect in a good life, it can be stated that technology allows humans to confront the unknown and see how they would react. This is the danger presented by too much reliance on technology. Humans lose track of things that matter, reducing their surroundings to their economic value. After all, it was science and technology that gave us explanations, which worked for us and benefited us. It will be absurd to venture the dark and the unknown, but it should be done in order for us to retrace our steps to be able to achieve the Good. Flourishing, or human flourishing, is the complete goodness of humans in a developmental lifespan, that somehow includes positive psychological functioning and positive social functioning, along with other basic goods. The term has gained more usage and interest in recent times, but is rooted in ancient philosophical and theological usages. Aristotle’s term eudaimonia is one source for understanding human flourishing. The Hebrew Scriptures, or the Old Testament, also speak of flourishing, as they compare the just person to a growing tree. Christian Scriptures, or the New Testament, build upon Jewish usage and speak of flourishing as it can exist in heaven. The medieval theologian Thomas Aquinas drew from Aristotle as well as the Bible, and utilized the notion of flourishing in his philosophical theology. More recently, the Positive Psychology of Martin Seligman, Corey Keyes, Barbara Fredrickson, and others, have expanded and developed the notion of human flourishing. Empirical studies, such as those of the Harvard Human Flourishing Program, and practical applications, indicate the importance of the concept and the increasingly widespread use of the term in business, economics, and politics. In positive psychology, flourishing is "when people experience positive emotions, positive psychological functioning and positive social functioning, most of the time," living "within an optimal range of human functioning." It is a descriptor and measure of positive mental health and overall life wellbeing, and includes multiple components and concepts, such as cultivating strengths, subjective wellbeing, "goodness, generativity, growth, and resilience." In this view, flourishing is the opposite of both pathology and languishing, which are described as living a life that feels hollow and empty.Etymology and DefinitionAlthough “flourishing” could refer to the general healthy state of a plant as it grows, properly speaking it is the stage in a vascular plant's morphogenesis, specifically the stage of growth when it develops flowers.EtymologyThe English term “flourish” comes from the Latin florere, “to bloom, blossom, flower,” from the Latin flos, “a flower.” To contrast the term with a plant's lack of full development, “flourish” came to indicate growth or development with vigor. Around 1597, the term came to include the notion of prosperity, insofar as a to bear flowers is an indication of the fullness of life and productivity.DefinitionsAs an obvious consequence of the widespread use of the term "flourishing" in different fields and by different authors, there is not a general consensus about a definition of flourishing.For instance, there is also a lot of debate about the mutual relations between flourishing and some related concepts, as the Aristotelian concept of eudaimonia, and the concepts of happiness and wellbeing. According to a NeoAristotelian view, the concept of human flourishing offers an explanation of the human good that is objective, inclusive, individualized, agentrelative, selfdirected and social. It views human flourishing objectively because it is desirable and appealing. Flourishing is a state of being rather than a feeling or experience. It comes from engaging in activities that both express and produce the actualization of one's potential.According to some voices in Positive Psychology, flourishing is a "descriptor of positive mental health." According to Fredrickson and Losada, flourishing is living...within an optimal range of human functioning, one that connotes goodness, generativity, growth, and resilience."According to the Mental Health Foundation of New Zealand, flourishing...is a state where people experience positive emotions, positive psychological functioning and positive social functioning, most of the time. In more philosophical terms this means access to the pleasant life, the engaged or good life and the meaningful life  It requires the development of attributes and social and personal levels that exhibit character strengths and virtues that are commonly agreed across different cultures (Seligman, Steen, Park and Peterson, 2005). On the other hand languishing includes states of experience where people describe their lives as "hollow" or "empty" (Fredrickson & Lahoda, 2005).According to Keyes, mental health does not imply an absence of mental illness. Rather, mental health is a "separate dimension of positive feelings and functioning." Individuals described as flourishing have a combination of high levels of emotional wellbeing, psychological wellbeing, and social wellbeing. Flourishing people are happy and satisfied; they tend to see their lives as having a purpose; they feel some degree of mastery and accept all parts of themselves; they have a sense of personal growth in the sense that they are always growing, evolving, and changing; finally, they have a sense of autonomy and an internal locus of control, they chose their fate in life instead of being victims of fate.Psychologist Martin Seligman, one of the founding fathers of happiness research, wrote in his book, Flourish, a new model for happiness and wellbeing based on positive psychology. This book expounds on simple exercises that anyone can do to create a happier life and to flourish. Flourish, is a tool to understand happiness by emphasizing how the five pillars of Positive Psychology, also known as PERMA, increase the quality of life for people who apply it to their lives.According to Fredrickson and Losada, flourishing is characterized by four main components: goodness, generative, growth, and resilience.According to Keyes, only 18.1% of Americans are actually flourishing. The majority of Americans can be classified as mentally unhealthy (depressed) or not mentally healthy or flourishing (moderately mentally healthy/languishing).Tyler J. VanderWeele, a prominent epidemiologist and expert in biostatistics who has extensively studied human flourishing, has proposed the following, quite different, definition:Flourishing itself might be understood as a state in which all aspects of a person’s life are good. We might also refer to such a state as complete human wellbeing, which is again arguably a broader concept than psychological wellbeing. Conceptions of what constitutes flourishing will be numerous and views on the concept will differ. However, I would argue that, regardless of the particulars of different understandings, most would concur that flourishing, however conceived, would, at the very least, require doing or being well in the following five broad domains of human life: (i) happiness and life satisfaction; (ii) health, both mental and physical; (iii) meaning and purpose; (iv) character and virtue; and (v) close social relationships. All are arguably at least a part of what we mean by flourishing. If, however, we think about flourishing not only as a momentary state but also as something that is sustained over time, then one might also argue that a state of flourishing should be such that resources, financial and otherwise, are sufficiently stable so that what is going well in each of these five domains is likely to continue into the future for some time to come. I would in no way claim that these domains above entirely characterize flourishing.  I would only argue here that, whatever else flourishing might consist in, these five domains above would also be included, and thus these five domains above may provide some common ground for discussion.SummaryTo summarize the definitions above: Human flourishing is the ongoing fulfillment of human capacities within given contexts by advancing one's own good and the common good.In order to better understand this synthesis, one has to keep in mind that, in the view of Aristotle and Thomas Aquinas, a capacity of a being is a potential stemming from its nature to perform certain kinds of activities, or to undergo certain kinds of changes in accordance with its inner dynamism. For instance, the capacity to bear fruit or the capacity to grow are within a tree's natural potential. On the other hand, the common good is some good—whether material or nonmaterial—that has four characteristics: it is specific, in the sense that it is not general goodinitself; it is objective, that is, it exists outside of the individual and is independent from the existence of any particular person; it is collective, for it exists only within some community; it is shareable, that is, many people can participate, enjoy, or use it simultaneously.Aristotle and FlourishingAristotle and biologyThe Greek philosopher, Aristotle, contributed greatly to a deeper understanding of flourishing as a model for human life. Betterknown for his work in metaphysics and logic, he was nevertheless a biologist first and foremost. His understanding of the development of flora and fauna, seen especially in his work Generation of Animals, provided a scientific background for recognizing a similar development in the human being.EudaimoniaSee also: eudaimoniaAristotle's term for the optimal state of the human being is eudaimonia (Greek: εὐδαίμονία). He gives various definitions and descriptions of eudaimonia, in the Nicomachean Ethics, the Eudemian Ethics, and in his Politics, among which:“The active exercise of his soul's faculties in conformity with excellence or virtue, or if there be several human excellences or virtues, in conformity with the best and most perfect among them. Moreover this activity must occupy a complete lifetime; for one swallow does not make spring, nor does one fine day; and similarly one day or a brief period of happiness does not make a man supremely blessed and happy.”“Happiness therefore is coextensive in its range with contemplation: the more a class of beings possesses the faculty of contemplation, the more it enjoys happiness, not as an accidental concomitant of contemplation but as inherent in it, since contemplation is valuable in itself. It follows that happiness is some form of contemplation.”“So, as the function of the soul and of its excellence must be one and the same, the function of its excellence is a good life. This, then, is the final good, that we agreed to be happiness. It is evident from our assumptions (happiness was assumed to be the best thing, and endsthe best among goodsare in the soul; but things in the soul are states or activities), since the activity is better than the disposition, and the best activity is of the best state, and virtue is the best state, that the activity of the virtue of the soul must be the best thing. But happiness too was said to be the best thing: so happiness is the activity of a good soul. Now as happiness was agreed to be something complete, and life may be complete or incompleteand this holds with excellence also (in the one case it is total, in the other partial)and the activity of what is incomplete is itself incomplete, happiness must be activity of a complete life in accordance with complete virtue.”“Happiness is the complete activity and employment of virtue, and this not conditionally but absolutely. When I say 'conditionally' I refer to things necessary, by ‘absolutely' I mean 'nobly: for instance, to take the case of just actions, just acts of vengeance and of punishment spring it is true from virtue, but are necessary, and have the quality of nobility only in a limited manner (since it would be preferable that neither individual nor state should have any need of such things), whereas actions aiming at honours and resources are the noblest actions absolutely; for the former class of acts consist in the removal of something evil, but actions of the latter kind are the opposite – they are the foundation and the generation of things good.”Sometimes eudaimonia is translated as “happiness”; other times, as “welfare” or “wellbeing,” showing that no translation is fully adequate to capture its meaning in Greek.Philosopher Joe Sachs emphasizes the importance of the activity of eudaimonia, a “beingatwork” of the human soul. This indicates that “flourishing” can adequately translate eudaimonia, insofar as the term signifies the dynamism of the principle of life and growth within a human.Biblical Theology of FlourishingOld TestamentThe Hebrew Bible, known by Christians as the Old Testament, contains many references to human flourishing that have influenced Western philosophy, indicating a cohesive theology whereby God in creative fruitfulness calls human beings to imitate the divine plenitude and lifegiving creativity.The Book of Genesis, particularly in its first chapter, presents God as creating the world and calling for the interior principle for bearing life from plants: “And God said, ‘Let the earth put forth vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind, upon the earth.’” The vegetation then responds to this divine initiative, which is recognized by God as good. A parallel act occurs with respect to animals, which are called to bear forth life “according to their kind.” Finally, God creates the human being, and gives them the command: “Be fruitful and multiply,” with a greater specification: “fill the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves upon the earth.” This indicates that human beings, from the beginning, were called to flourish so as to bear fruit, which is not only biological offspring, but also a relation to the rest of creation.Flourishing of the “just man”. The imagery that compares the just or righteous person to a flourishing tree can be found in many places in the Hebrew Scriptures: Psalm 1:3, “He is like a tree planted by streams of water, that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither.” Psalm 92:1214, “The righteous flourish like the palm tree, and grow like a cedar in Lebanon.” Jeremiah 17:8, “Blessed is the man who trusts in the LORD, whose trust is the LORD. He is like a tree planted by water, that sends out its roots by the stream, and does not fear when heat comes, for its leaves remain green, and is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit.” See also, Isaiah 44:4.Flourishing of the collective/people/city. At times, Israel is compared to a “vine” that has been planted by the hand of God. Ezekiel 19:10.Hebrew Scripture also expounds on what could be calls “antiflourishing,” that is, the contrary to flourishing on account of righteousness and Torah meditation: “The wicked are not so, but are like chaff which the wind drives away.” Also: Ps 35:5, Job 21:18. Here, too, a prophetic vision is combined with the image of the wicked who commit idolatry do not live and flourish, but instead are like dead bits of straw. This imagery is also utilized by John the Baptist to describe the eschatological work of the Messiah, who will judge the wicked and consign them to everlasting burning: “His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the granary, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.”New TestamentAs befitted his traditional education and upbringing, Jesus Christ utilized Hebrew flourishing imagery a number of times. His motivation for doing so can be inferred that he found it suitable for his purposes, for he was reputed to be the son of a carpenter and therefore was not drawing upon immediate personal experience but a wider tradition.In one place, he compares different ways of receiving “the word” and responding with different kinds of flourishing: some receive it with joy but like plants with a shallow root system fall away in difficult times; others are like “good soil” that “brought forth grain, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.”Jesus Christ also compares union with him to be the source of flourishing: “As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me, and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit.” In contrast, the one who does not “abide” in him experiences antiflourishing: “If a man does not abide in me, he is cast forth as a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire and burned.”Christ stated that the fruit one bears is a sign of moral goodness, as is related to his famous saying that “you will know them by their fruits,” which compares people to trees.It seems that, for Christ, bare life was insufficient for the developmental stage he expected people to reach, for he drew draws upon (anti)flourishing imagery in a parable about a tree that does not bear fruit, and will be cut down within a year if it continues to be barren. This was manifested in a miracle in which Christ saw a fig tree “and found nothing on it but leaves only,” and so cursed it, such that it “withered at once.”Thomas Aquinas and FlourishingTheological Use of “flourishing” languageThomas Aquinas, the Dominican Medieval theologian, uses “flourishing” language in metaphorical and analogical senses. For instance, he asserts that “as therefore we say that a tree flowers by its flower, so do we say that the Father, by the Word or the Son, speaks Himself, and His creatures; and that the Father and the Son love each other and us, by the Holy Ghost, or by Love proceeding;” he writes also that “Christ wished "to flower" by His holy life, not in His carnal birth.” He says also that virtues “are also called “flowers,” namely, in relation to future happiness; because just as from flowers hope of fruit is taken, so from works of the virtues is obtained hope of eternal life and happiness. And as in the flower there is a beginning of the fruit, so in the works of the virtues is a beginning of happiness, which will exist when knowledge and charity are made perfect.” Commenting on Psalm 28 (27 according to the Vulgate), he uses the verb reflorere (to reflower) to the Resurrection of Christ, by applying to it the Vulgate 9th vers, in which it is said, in particular, that refloruit caro mea (lit.: my flesh reflowered).Connection to felicitas (happiness) and beatitudo (beatitude)In spite of this mainly metaphorical use of “flourishing” language, Aquinas deals widely with the notion nowadays expressed by “flourishing”. The terms he employs in this context are felicitas (happiness) and beatitudo (beatitude, blessedness). In previous Christian Latin authors, as Boethius, felicitas was used to mean an earthly temporal good in opposition to beatitudo, the highest human good, attainable only in Heaven. Nevertheless, St. Thomas, probably influenced by Grosseteste’s choice to translate Aristotle's eudaimonia in Latin as felicitas, and tended to use them as synonyms, though he more frequently used beatitudo, in order to mean the last end of human life, as it is explicit, for instance, in ST III, q. 2, a. 2, arg. 1; this end, for him, consists in the fruition or enjoyment of God, which is perfect only in Heaven. He identifies perfect beatitudo (perfect in relation to man, who is its subject, since fully perfect beatitude, according to Aquinas, belongs only to God, see, e.g., ST III, q. 3, a. 2, ad 4). There is also an imperfect beatitudo, which consists in the contemplation of God by natural reason is a participation of the perfect one and is attainable also in this life, and is the happiness of which Aristotle spoke. It is also relevant to note that, though identifying felicitas with natural contemplation of the divine, Aquinas acknowledges, following Aristotle, that some material goods are necessary aids for its attainment.Full human flourishing not possible in this life due to sinFelicitas, or imperfect beatitudo, is full human flourishing at the natural level and, as just seen, according to Aquinas, it is in principle attainable, since it is proportionate to human nature. In the state of innocence, humans were able to operate in their full powers and therefore to operate natural goods also without the help of divine grace, though the latter was already necessary to operate at the supernatural level and to reach perfect union with God. On the other hand, actual human nature is partially corrupted by the original sin, and, therefore, humans do not have the possibilities to fully use their natural powers and, therefore, they cannot fully flourish, not even on the natural level. Nevertheless, human nature is not totally corrupt; therefore, according to St. Thomas, it is still possible to naturally perform some good. Therefore, a full human natural flourishing, which requires the harmonious and excellent development of all moral virtues, is impossible by human natural forces in our current condition, and God's grace is necessary for full human flourishing.Perfect human flourishing in next life through gracePerfect human flourishing, according to Aquinas, consists in the direct contemplation of God and in loving Him, participating in His Trinitarian life. This highly exceeds human powers (as just seen, even in the state prior to sin); theological virtues, faith, hope, and charity, which are gratuitous gifts of God, are necessary to allow man to reach such an end, for which its powers are not proportionate. Also, the connection and full development of moral virtues, so full human flourishing in this life, require charity. Therefore, it is only a gratuitous gift of God which allows humans to know and love Him in a supernatural way already in this life. But a perfect knowledge and love of God, that is perfect beatitudo or perfect human flourishing is possible only in the next life by divine grace.Flourishing as a habit and ongoing activityAccording to Aquinas, habits, especially properly human habits, acquired through voluntary repeated actions, constitute a sort of second nature for us. Habits are extremely difficult to change, and, therefore, have an extremely significant part in shaping human behavior and in contributing or impeding true human flourishing. The possession of good habits, virtues, is an essential part of human flourishing. In order to flourish, one needs a habitual knowledge of both his/her condition and the final end he/she is pursuing, true happiness. But this is not sufficient, since knowledge of the good is not sufficient to cause our good acting. Human perfection also requires a continuous effort to attain deep changes on the personal level, cooperating with divine grace in destroying the old man, with his wrong habits, and in building up the new man, full of virtues (this is true also on the natural level of acquired virtues). In order to do that, a “readiness to change,” or rather a “readiness to flourish,” to take up any occasion to flourish, fighting against our bad habits and developing good ones, is needed to really flourish. An occasional readiness and a momentary intention is insufficient, for they could never attain stable results. What is needed is a stable readiness to flourish, that is “a “habitual readiness,” similar to the state of a healthy plant that is always ready to absorb necessary nutrients or grow or bear fruit when the conditions are right. A "flourishing habit" consists in a metahabit that underlies all other habit development, as well as the ongoing activity of flourishing. It is a habitual readiness to develop habits as needed, and to continue the activity of flourishing within various contexts. In this way, a habitual readiness to flourish and the ongoing activity of flourishing can be considered as the moral correlates to a habitual intellectual attitude of openness to truth, one that keeps a person's mind open to learning in any realm that he encounters.Other Religious Interpretations of FlourishingDaoism, or TaoismAccording to Daoism, the most crucial characteristic which distinguishes human beings from other living beings is the ability to recognize, follow and identify with the dao, or tao, (Way) (D 23), a mysterious, and ineffable source that holds sway over all things. And this ability presupposes a capacity for selfcultivation, and, if necessary, selftransformation. Through selfcultivation a person is enabled to discharge a responsibility which is uniquely human: to help keep the world in good order. The Daoist conception of a flourishing life is enrooted in this vision of the human being: it is a virtuous life in which, through selfcultivation on the bodily, mental and spiritual sides, a person comes to identify with the dao, the mysterious source and sustainer of the cosmos. This brief and vague presentation should be acceptable by exponents of all Daoist schools. Nevertheless, there are huge differences among them about what precisely means to harmonize life with the dao and how to achieve it. For instance, in organized religious movements as the Ways of Great Clarity and of Complete Perfection, the attainment of immortality, based on the idea a person can emulate the eternal dao by never exhausting one's qi (vital energy), is particularly emphasized. Or in other later Daoist religious dispensations, like that of the Way of the Celestial Masters, the religious worship of a sage, seen as able to intercede with Heaven (in this example Laozi), is stressed. But in ancient Daoist philosophers these aspects are absent, or not so relevant. For them, a fundamental aspect of living in harmony with the dao is to live in harmony with nature. Moreover, Daoist de, usually translated as virtue, has not a moral dimension; in the case of human beings it indicates the qualities or dispositions that allow people to live a flourishing life. De is strictly related to ziran, another key Daoist concept usually translated as spontaneity or naturalness. In synthesis, to flourish is to live in harmony with the dao, that is to live spontaneously, so comply one's life with the nature of the dao.Positive Psychology and FlourishingHistory"Flourishing" as a psychological concept has been developed by Corey Keyes and Barbara Fredrickson.Keyes collaborated with Carol Ryff in testing her Sixfactor Model of Psychological Wellbeing, and in 2002 published his theoretical considerations in an article on The Mental Health Continuum: From Languishing to Flourishing. qualified by Fredrickson as "pathbreaking work that measures mental health in positive terms rather than by the absence of mental illness."Barbara Fredrickson developed the broadenandbuild theory of positive emotions. According to Fredrickson there is a wide variety of positive effects that positive emotions and experiences have on human lives. Fredrickson notes two characteristics of positive emotions that differ from negative emotions:Positive emotions do not seem to elicit specific action tendencies the same way that negative emotions do. Instead, they seem to cause some general, nondirection oriented activation.Positive emotions do not necessarily facilitate physical action, but do spark significant cognitive action. For this reason, Fredrickson conceptualizes two new concepts: thoughtaction tendencies, or what a person normally does in a particular situation, and thoughtaction repertoires, rather an inventory of skills of what a person is able to do.Previous theories of emotion stated that all emotions are associated with urges to act in particular ways, called actiontendencies. According to Fredrickson, most positive emotions do not follow this model of actiontendencies, since they do not usually occur in lifethreatening circumstances and thus do not generally elicit specific urges. Fredrickson proposes that instead of one general theory of emotions, psychologists should develop theories for each emotion or for subsets of emotions.The broadenandbuild theory of positive emotions proposed by Fredrickson states that while negative emotions narrow thoughtaction tendencies to time tested strategies as handed down by evolution, positive emotions broaden thoughtaction repertoires. Positive emotions often cause people to discard timetested or automatic action tendencies and pursue novel, creative, and often unscripted courses of thought and action. These positive emotions and thoughtaction repertoires can be seen as applicable to the concept of flourishing because flourishing children and adults have a much wider array of cognitive, physical, and social possibilities, which results in the empirical and actual successes of a flourishing life.The concept has also been used by Martin E.P. Seligman, the founder of positive psychology, in his 2011 publication Flourish. Seligman, usually considered the father of positive psychology, characterizes human flourishing as excellence in 5 fields: positive emotion, engagement, relationships, meaning, and achievement. Consequently, his model of human flourishing is usually called the PERMA model. He claims also that health is an essential element of flourishing, but he presents a quite vast notion of health, including biological assets (e.g., the hormone oxytocin, longer DNA telomeres), subjective assets (e.g., optimism, vitality), and functional assets (good marriage, rich friendships, engaging work) (See Seligman, Flourish, 209). Although Seligman's PERMA model is certainly useful for psychological studies on flourishing, it doesn't capture the essence of human flourishing, since it may allow us to consider as flourishing evidently evil people, as brutal dictators, if they test good in these five fields. To avoid this misunderstanding of human flourishing, Seligman himself, and also other thinkers as Christopher Peterson, have also discussed what they call “character strengths” or “virtues.”. Seligman gives the following definition of flourishing:To flourish is to find fulfillment in our lives, accomplishing meaningful and worthwhile tasks, and connecting with others at a deeper level—in essence, living the “good life”Measurement and diagnostic criteriaWith the concept of flourishing, psychologists can study and measure fulfillment, purpose, meaning, and happiness. Flourishing can be measured through selfreport measures. Individuals are asked to respond to structured scales measuring the presence of positive affect, absence of negative affect, and perceived satisfaction with life. Participants are specifically asked about their emotions and feelings because scientists theorize that flourishing is something that manifests itself internally rather than externally.Keyes has operationalized symptoms of positive feelings and positive functioning in life by reviewing dimensions and scales of subjective wellbeing and, therefore, creating a definition of flourishing. To complete, or "operationalize", the definition of what it means to be functioning optimally, or flourishing, diagnostic criteria have been developed for a flourishing life:Individual must have had no episodes of major depression in the past yearIndividual must possess a high level of wellbeing as indicated by the individuals meeting all three of the following criteriaHigh emotional wellbeing, defined by 2 of 3 scale scores on appropriate measures falling in the upper tertile.Positive affectNegative affect (low)Life satisfactionHigh psychological wellbeing, defined by 4 of 6 scale scores on appropriate measures falling in the upper tertile.SelfacceptancePersonal growthPurpose in lifeEnvironmental masteryAutonomyPositive relations with othersHigh social wellbeing, defined by 3 of 5 scale scores on appropriate measures falling in the upper tertile.Social acceptanceSocial actualizationSocial contributionSocial coherenceSocial integrationMajor empirical findingsSee also: Wellbeing contributing factorsPositive emotional feelings such as moods, and sentiments such as happiness, carry more personal and psychological benefits than just a pleasant, personal subjective experience. Flourishing widens attention, broaden behavioral repertoires, which means to broaden one's skills or regularly performed actions, increase intuition, and increase creativity. Secondly, good feelings can have physiological manifestations, such as significant and positive cardiovascular effects, such as a reduction in blood pressure. Third, good feelings predict healthy mental and physical outcomes. Also, positive affect and flourishing is related to longevity. In a 2022 study of intrusive thoughts and flourishing, Jesse Omoregie and Jerome Carson found that people who experience flourishing would usually experience minimal intrusive thoughts. Omoregie and Carson further concluded that flourishing is a variable that helps in the reduction of psychological problems such as anxiety, depression, and intrusive thoughts.The many components of flourishing elicit more tangible outcomes than simply mental or physiological results. For example, components such as selfefficacy, likability, and prosocial behavior encourage active involvement with goal pursuits and with the environment. This promotes people to pursue and approach new and different situations. Therefore, flourishing adults have higher levels of motivation to work actively to pursue new goals and are in possession of more past skills and resources. This helps people to satisfy life and societal goals, such as creating opportunities, performing well in the workplace, and producing goods, work and careers that are highly valued in American society. Authors, Robert Kegan and Lisa Laskow Lahey, in their book, An Everyone Culture, "argues that organizations do best when they build an environment that encourages constant personal development among their employees." This success results in higher satisfaction and reinforces Frederickson's Broaden and Build model, for more positive adults reap more benefits and, are more positive, which creates an upward spiral.Studies have shown that people who are flourishing are more likely to graduate from college, secure "better" jobs, and are more likely to succeed in that job. One reason for this success can be seen in the evidence offered above when discussing languishing: those that flourish have less work absenteeism, cited by Lyubomirsky as "job withdrawal." Finally, those that are flourishing have more support and assistance from coworkers and supervisors in their workplace.Flourishing has been found to impact more areas than simply the workplace. In particular community involvement and social relationships have been cited as something that flourishing influences directly. For example, those that flourish have been found to volunteer at higher levels across cultures. Moreover, in terms of social support and relationships, studies have shown that there is an association between flourishing and actual number of friends, overall social support, and perceived companionship.ApplicationsThe definition or conceptualization of mental health under the framework of flourishing and languishing describes symptoms that can cooperate with intervention techniques aimed at increasing levels of emotional, social, and psychological wellbeing. Furthermore, as Keyes implies, in a world full of flourishing people, all would be able to reap the benefits that this positive mental state and life condition offers.EducationKeyes mentions children as well as adults. He says that children are directly affected by maternal depression, and points out that the flourishing or languishing of teachers and the effect on students have not been studied. Keyes also speculates that teacher retention may be associated with the students' frames of mind. Furthermore, if students can be made to flourish, the benefits to the education process are greater, as flourishing can increase attention and thoughtaction repertoires.EngagementFlourishing also has many applications to civic duty and social engagement. Keyes believes that most people do not focus enough on those aspects of life and focus instead on personal achievement. Keyes suggests that people should provide encouragement to children, and adults, to participate socially. People that exhibit flourishing are engaged in social participation and people that are engaged in social participation exhibit flourishing. Therefore, he suggests that people should give their kids a purpose, which creates a sense of contribution and environmental mastery that enhances feelings of wellbeing and fulfilment.CriticismsThis psychological concept of flourishing is built on Fredrickson's broadenandbuild theory of positive emotions, but some researchers have suggested that there are other functions of positive emotions. Mackie and Worth propose that positive emotions diminish cognitive capabilities. They showed that when exposed to a persuasive message for a limited amount of time, subjects experiencing a positive mood showed reduced processing as compared with subjects in a neutral mood. Others have suggested that positive emotions diminish the motivation but not the capacity for cognitive processing. Flourishing is still a newly developing subject of study and, more tests need to be done to fully define, operationalize, and apply the concept of flourishing; this lack of research is also one criticism of the concept of flourishing.Contemporary Flourishing ResearchGlobal Flourishing StudyIt is a longitudinal study about human flourishing, involving data collection of individuals of 22 countries all around the world. It is carried out by scholars at the Human Flourishing Program at Harvard and Baylor's Institute for Studies of Religion, in partnership with Gallup and the Center for Open Science. Its preparation began in 2018 and its first data are expected by the summer of 2023.Johns Hopkins: Paul McHugh Program for Human FlourishingThis program based at Johns Hopkins University, founded in 2015, and directed by Margaret S. Chisolm, aims at bringing the results of interdisciplinary research on health and human flourishing to an audience of both clinicians and cliniciansintraining.Harvard Human Flourishing ProgramThis program was founded in 2016 at Harvard's Institute for Quantitative Social Science and directed by Tyler J. VanderWeele. Its aim is to study and promote human flourishing.University of Pennsylvania: Positive Psychology Center and Flourishing and Humanities ProjectThis interdisciplinary research project, based at the University of Pennsylvania's Positive Psychology Center, directed by James Pawelski and founded in 2014, studies the relations of the arts and humanities with human flourishing.Humanity 2.0The Humanity 2.0 Foundation mission is to identify impediments to human flourishing and then work collaboratively across sectors to remove them by sourcing and scaling bold and innovative solutions. To support this mission, the Humanity 2.0 Institute integrates global research on key questions: What is human flourishing? What are the pathways to achieve human flourishing? What obstacles block these pathways? What are practical solutions to remove these obstacles? Research partners include the Human Flourishing Program at Harvard University, the Pontifical Gregorian University and the University of Pennsylvania Positive Psychology Center and Flourishing Humanities Project.the human person flourishing interms ofscience and technology so basically howthe how do we flourish like afterlearning all these science stuff afteruh gaining a lot of knowledge in termsof technologyhow is the human persondoes the world um do we live betterbecause of this or mustexistence now let's uh dive inso the the lesson objectives forthis uh topic we will beidentifying different conceptions ofhuman flourishing sowhat what makes uh the human existenceuh purposeful or meaningful or how do webecome happyand what is the meaning of our existencein the worldand all of those confusion maybeyou're having that confusion right nowandwell maybe it's a common confusion amongteens or early 20s sowe will be discussing more about thatand also we will be determining thedevelopment of scientific methodand validity of science we will bediscussinguh a few theories about how do wevalidate our observationslike how how do wesay that our observation is trueand acceptable and after that we willalsobe criticizing human flourishingvisavisprogress of science and technology to beable to define for themselves themeaning of good lifeso basically our goal forthis lesson is to know what it reallymeans orwhat what it takes tolive a good life okayso the question is what is happinessokay our definition for happiness may bedifferentso before continuing theuh the the video i'd like you towrite on the comment section under thisvideoyour own meaning of happinessokay so you may pause this video rightnowand write your thoughtsif you can write your thoughts andcomments then of course you willthere will be additional credit for itthere will be an additional pointand this will also mean that youlistened to the discussion or to thelecture because you're able toknow what the question is so this is asort of a test as wellso what is happinessi'm not really sure well there's as isaid earlierthere is no definite uh there is nouniversal definition for happinessbecause happiness may beuh different the meaning of happinessmay be different from person to personbut there are actually umtheories or i willwe will be discussing more about uhabout thisdetail later on so the definition ofhappiness it also depends on the cultureyour own set of principles your own setof valuesso you may be happy doingbad things you also may be happy doinggood things doing good things foryourselfor doing good things for others so ourdefinition for happinessis is different it's different for eachotherso well the word happiness is also beingdefined in psychology it also beingdefined by behaviorist it's also beingdefined by neurologists now let's digdeeper on their definitionfor psychologists or for in the field ofpsychology they said thathappiness is a mental or emotional stateof wellbeing which can be definedby positive or pleasant emotionsrange ranging from contentment tointensejoy so in psychology it said that if youareif you feel positive if you feelcontentedit means that you are happyfor behaviorists they define happiness alittle bit differentlythey said happiness is a cocktail ofemotions we experience when we dosomething goodor positive so mainly it's just beingpositive and well generally just beingpositiveabout stuff so if myif you will like say somethingnegatively or feel something negativethen it means you're not happy sobehaviorists definition of happiness isa little bit um basic so just if youfeelpositive if you feel good then you'rehappy for psychologyif there's like it ranges or the emotionisranging from simple contentment tointensejoy and for neurologiststhey define happiness ashappiness is the experience of a floodof hormones released in the brainas a reward for behavior that prolongssurvival so neurologists they aremore like in into thechemical signals in the brain and in thebodyfor example you umyou see your crush and then there arechemical signals in your brainserotonin the happy hormone dopamine andall of that and thenif you're sad there are alsothere's also a hormone which is calledcortisolit's called a stress hormone so forneurologists they define happinessuh depending on the hormones that arebeing releasedby your brain or in your body sothat's how they define happinessso the question is is happiness adestinationor a journeythis question is a is deep butwe will not be answering this questionbecauseit as i said earlier it depends upon thepersonif you think happiness if you definehappiness asthe end goal for exampleifbut for others happiness is a journeyfor exampleum if you of course you're listening tothis now because you're a studentif you feel happy with your journey asyou take your course uhin like in this universityor if you're not my student then maybeany university oryou define happiness as a journeylike you enjoy studyingyour course if you are studying thefield that you wanted to pursue forexample you want toum do teaching and the process of beinga teacheryou enjoy the you enjoy the processit's basically when youum have a joyride so malipa na baja homedestinationso i think it's different forperson to personokay so thereare actually two points of viewabout happiness or umor the pursuit of happiness sothe first one we call it hedonistic viewand the other one is eudaimonia so let'sfirst discuss what is thishedonistic view so it is um it meansthat happiness is a polar opposite ofsufferingthe presence of happiness indicates theabsence of painbecause of this hedonists believe thatthe purpose of life is to maximizehappinesswhich minimizes misery in my opinion ithink the hedonistic viewis i think it's a little bit shallowyou are in misery uhif for example not let's sayor nagasakita thisso in the hedonistic point of viewdilena dion kamalipayonbut usually dilimanso i don't think that most filipinoshave this point of view uhthat's just my opinion because likethe hedonistic view it says the absenceof painso mostly hedonistic point of viewwestern culture for exampleuh like western culture if they don'thave money ifthey don't have like the latest iphonethe latest gadget they and then suffernecessarybut for filipinos i think this is notour point of view becauselike even even if umwell i can't evaluatethe absence of pain there will be nopain in understanding lectures therewill be no painthere will be no pressure in taking aquiz or an exami don't know for youbut hopefullyespecially this module now let'scontinue what about eudaimoniaso it means that this is from the greekwordgood and spirit so basically it'sgood spirited ammonia defines happinessas the pursuit of becominga better person you demons do this bychallenging themselves intellectually orbyengaging in activities that make themspirituallyricher people so thisis a little it this is i think verydifferent than hedonistic view becauseeudaimoniaaims to be better for exampleyou are learning a music instrumentand then you're a beginner and then youwant it to bebetter better at it so it's it i thinkthat's theanalogy of it you want it to be betterfor example youare a generous person you want to bemore generousif um and if youwant to be successful you will challengeyourself you will study moreand then if you if you achieve yourgoal if you were able to challengeyourself then you will behappy so that is the point of eudaimoniaso ihope that you are able to differentiatenowwhat's uh what's the difference betweenhedonistic viewand the eudaimoniaso yes that's it means good spiritedit is coined by aristotle soum he described theidea as the pinnacle of happiness thatis attainable by humans so basicallyhuman flourishing is centered on thispoint of view or in this principleso it's to become a better person it'sto becomingbetter it's to challenge yourself to bebetterand not really the shallow point ofhumanif wallachia isso actually this point of view isum i think very shallow that if likein marriage if hedonistic view umin you hang on tawan like in marriage orlet's sayin let's have studying as an exampleofif you have these pains if you havethese challengesthen dealing so i think this point ofview isdangerous to have so it's better to havethe eudaimonia orthe eudaimonia uh ideology whenyou want to become better you want tochallenge yourself even thoughso don't politicallybut i will congratulate you if you areable to listen up to uhthis minute right now becauseto become a better person to challengeyourselfbecause you know the khan ka isbecause they don't want to become betterthey don't want to have better livesso i congratulate you forfor making it this far i hopeeven though this is our situation okaylet's continueum so that's it so basically hehidonia it's just to feel good butyou demonia is to feel purpose sochallenges in life but you have yourpurposeyou have your own reason why so uhthis uh this is how different they areokay okay so from thenicomachian ethics i'm not sure how tosay that nicomachia nikomakian correctmeif i'm wrong so it's actually aphilosophy goal in koreaninto the nature of the good life for ahuman being so basically it focuses onthe goodlife the human flourishing arises as aresult of different components we havepronuncesfriendship wealth and power so whatdoes this word mean so for thisphronesis is the habit of making theright decisionsand taking the right actions in contextand relentless pursuit of excellence forthe common good so basicallyhuman flourishing whichfocuses on the eudaimonia or theuh you dying you demonisticpoint of view uh this isum the basic principles of humanflourishingit is a result of these components soif we want to do the right decisionsand if we have umfriendship wealth and power for thecommon good not just for yourown but for the common good like forum for your community forthe world for the global perspectiveor like it's it's a wider perspective onhuman flourishingunder this um point of viewso or the nikumaki and ethicsas time changes elements that comprisehumanflourishing change which are subject tothedynamic social history as written byhumans people found means to live morecomfortablyexplore more places develop moreproductsand make more money and then repeatingthe processin full circle in the beginningearly people relied on simple machinesto makehunting and gathering easier thisdevelopment allowed them to makegrander and more sophisticated machinesto aid themin their endeavors that eventually ledto space explorationsmedicine innovations and ventures oflifeafter that after death so people beforethey were they had simple machinesand then after that when they as theylearned moreas they learned about science andtechnologythey were able to explore moreespeciallyuh the very systematic knowledgelike space exploration medicineinnovationsand even life after death so in acomplex nowi'm gonna explore some people as timechanges humans today are expected tobecomemen of the world as thatwhat aristotle originally perceivedso he is supposed to situate himself ina globalneighborhood working side by side amonginstitutionsand the government to be able to reach acommon goalmeaning when people do something whenpeople dostuff of their workis related to the common goodof the people in the community andthe people work side by side by thegovernmentto reach a common goal to reachsuccess together sobefore competitionwas the means was the means of survivalsoespecially tribes as a means to surviveis they destroy other tribes sothat happened at chennai before usconcepts usually pinata means ofsurvivalbut as years went byit's not about competition anymore sothe newtrend is coordination or cooperationso it's not competition anymore uhit passed means it's out of dateor like it's notit's not being used anymore so the newtrend is coordination or cooperationworking side by side working side bysideby the government among institutions andthe governmentso now let's differentiate eastern andwestern conception regarding society andhuman flourishing because the easternand western uhcons the way they perceivelife the way they perceive happiness theway they perceive the meaning of ourexistence is actuallykind of opposite so let's discussmore on that so for the easternconceptionit is most on community centric meaningit focusesmore on the community what the personis giving to the communityand then uh in the eastern conceptionindividuals should sacrifice himselffor the sake of society meaning it'svery like heroic beta on the thingsamong our eastern conceptsso there's another there's um twosystems herethat describes mainly thecommunitycentric focus of theeastern concept isis one is chinese confusion system andanother is japanese bushido so what doesthis meanso from i got adefinition from asiassociety.orgconfucianism means a system of socialand ethical philosophyrather than a religion and then it isbuilt on anancient religious foundation toestablish the social valuesinstitutions and transcendent ideals oftraditionalchinese society basicallywhat it means is that the philosophy ofa confucian system is toor is its foundation is toestablish so social valuesand to givebenefits to the community as a whole notjustto own self how about the japanesebushido so it means it's about theprinciplesthe principles of bushido emphasizedhonorcourage skill in the martial arts andloyalty to a warrior's master soagain it is about being loyal tomaster and serving that masterand not just you know satisfyingown self so the eastern conception alsoencourages studies of literaturesciences and art for a greatercause meaning for a bigger purpose notjust forkina linguan but for a greater causeor for the next generationhow about the western conception it isopposite because as you can see for theeastern is focused on the communityand the western conception is focused onthe individualso we mentioned earlier that wheni asked about what is happiness is it ajourney or a destinationso for them it is the destination theywant toum they are more unsatisfyingtheir own pleasures for example i wantedto have a huge cari wanted to be earning billions ofdollars i wanted to be populari wanted to do this for myself andit is the opposite for the easternconception for the japan chinese andjapanese culturewhen it is more focused on the communityor for other peoplebut for western conception it is focusedon the individualand then there there's here thearistotleview it aims for eudaimonia as theultimategood so um aristotle intendentailed it instrumental instrumental toachievesome other goals and well this isactually for thisaristotle view yes the westernconception also wanted to achievethe ultimate good the positive side oflife but the aristotelian view isit depends on the person perhaps aperson who hasachieved such state the eudaimoniasuch state would want to serve thecommunity probably uma person like even if uh in a westerncultureso depending on the tower so the personmight want to serve the communitybut that is brought upon throughdeliberation based on his values ratherthan his beliefthat the state is greater than him andthusis only appropriate that he shouldrecognize it as a higher entityworthy of service so feeling nianaworthy of service andhe can do that so the end goalis to still achieve the ultimategood so did it said alluh western culture are veryselfcenteredare selfish butif they view uhhuman flourishing with a ammonia in mindis still to achieve the ultimate goodso meaning focus just individual butstillhappens not community centered but stilla western conception still wantseudaimonia or the ultimategood okay so nevertheless suchstereotypes cannot be said to be truegiven the current stance ofglobalization so it cannot betrue for everyone chinese and japanesewho are selfcentered okay uh so wecannot just have stereotypes now ifeasternuh your your chinese or japanese yourcommunity centeredor if western selfishnessno so we cannot make such stereotypesokay so flourishing borders allowedpeoplefull access to cultures that as a resultveryfew are able to maintain their originalphilosophiesit is in this regard that we wouldtackle human flourishing in a globalperspectiveand as a man of the world so we will notbe studying human flourishingas us separately like eastern conceptionlahi sila concepts and westernconception they have differentphilosophiesbut as we progress to bein global we are being globalized theexchange of cultures exchange ofphilosophiesso we cannot saying uhyou know as i said earlier if chineseyou're not selfish if western god youare selfishyou are selfish no we cannot say thatanymore so we will be focusinguh people like people in general nomatterfrom no matter what culture you are fromas long as you are a person in the worldthan humans we we can discussor learn about human flourishing asindividindividual livinglike globally like generally likea person a person in general like in aglobal perspective that's what i meantokay so for science technology and humanflourishingokay so in the previous chapterswe contributions of science andtechnology have been laid downthoroughly every discovery innovationand success contributes to ourpool of human knowledge perhaps one ofthe most prevalent themesis humans perpetual need to locatehimselfin the world by finding proofs to traceevolutionstill yes people are still trying toto discover maybe discovermore on the theory of of evolutionbut yeah it depends on each person'sbusiness okay so the business of anuncovering uh the business of uncoveringthe secrets of the universeanswers the question of our existenceand provides us something to lookforward tohaving a particular role which isuniquely ourselicits our idea of selfimportanceso it it still depends upon uponuh the person of their ideaof selfimportance so ifum if like if they will know more aboutwhy we exist how we existand all of that so must marielle i saygronilai meant those scientists who aretrying to to look forways or to find theoriesor even like the real deal of why weexist just to get this sense ofbeing important maybeso in this um it is in this regard thathuman flourishing is deeply intertwinedwith a goalsetting relevant to science andtechnology so in this casethe latter is relevant as a tool inachieving the formeror echoing the heidegger's statementso this is the heidegger's statement itsaystechnology is a human activitywe excel we excel inas a result of achieving science sostuff is to say that the end goals ofbothscience and technologyand human flourishing are relatedso that the goal is inherently relateduh the good i mean the good isinherentlyrelated to the truth so basicallytechnology it is because of people'sum aspiration to want to knowwhat is good and what is the truthso how do we know what is goodand how do we know the truth there aremethods used by science to getto know the truth i mean to know thetruth so we call thatscientific method i'm sure you arefamiliar witha scientific method because it has beendiscussed inelementary in high school but basicallyit's umscience has methods and also it hasresultsso you will know if something that youarefor for example you have a hypothesisyou will knowif your hypothesis is true or notso science stems from objectivitybrought upon by a rigid method soconsensusstandardized test to know the truthso in an concept of signs and also toclaimto reason and empiricismand basically what it does is ifnasality questionsit has everything has to be explainednice scientific mind they don't wanta question unanswered they want to haveananswer to everything so that's whyscience is very objective and there's arigidmethod so let's discuss thesteps uh in scientific methodfirst is to observe okay so how do wehow do we observe so we observe anddetermine if there are unexplainedoccurrences unfolding soum it can be a question ofthe environment whatever you wanted toobserveyou can just if if itis unexplained then you want to observeitand then determine the problem andidentify factorsinvolved and then you will formhypothesisso through past knowledge of similarinstance formulate hypothesis that couldexplainthe said phenomenon ideally the goal istoreject the null hypothesis and acceptthealternative hypothesis for the study tocount assignificant it can also be separatedinto additional steps as to generatepredictionor to infer from past experimentsso if not like the goal is to develophypothesisand if the hypothesis isproved to be not true then it thehypothesis will be rejectedand after formulating a good hypothesisthe experimental stage will happenso the next stage is conduct experimentby setting up dependent andindependent variables and trying to seehow independent onesaffect the dependent ones soyes conduct now all experiment so nakaivariables and you will testif nice significance or an i changes theemohangiexperiment and then gather and analyzeresults throughout and upon combinationof the experimentexamine if the data gathered aresignificant enough to concluderesults after that you formulate theconclusion and provide a recommendationin case others would want to broaden thestudy so basically this is howwe write ourthesis or basically the scientificmethodso there's actually umtwo theories that we will but we will bediscussing more in detailone is verification theory andanother will be falsification theorynow let's discuss first what is thedifference betweenthe two so verification theoryis a discipline a disciplineis a science if it can be confirmed orinterpreted in the event of analternative hypothesisbeing accepted so it is based onreason or empiricism it takes intoaccount the results whichare measurable and experiments which arerepeatableso if you have a theoryand it is measurable and it isrepeatablethen it can be accepted if it can beverifiedthenaccept so this is umthe theory being used umbefore like a scientist if it cannot beverified if it cannot be measuredthen it's probably not truefor example there's a cat in a boxand thenthe question is is the cat in the boxalive or is the cat in the boxdead so sothey will verify if uncertainit's actually the fault of thisverification theory guymeasure shallow lung verification theoryand it is so this isuh how the verification theory has beendeveloped so there werea group of scholars who believe thatonly those which can be observedshould be regarded as meaningful so ifdealing withobserved voilathen it is meaningful if deleting ameasure if the moment observed then itis meaninglessso reject those which cannot be directlyaccessedas uh meaningless souh going back to the question about thecat in a boxsomaybe some others will say oh the thethe cat in the box isalive or the cat in the box is deadso dilly is good mo dig deeperso as you can see faulty umverification uh theoryso unless so didn't he actuallyvery limited um verification theory okayfor exampleum so let'suh let's discuss about its shortcomingsor unsaidverification theory so it lack empiricalresultsprove to be right solet's say discoveries in physicsinitially theorized theorized withoutproper acknowledgement of their beingfor example einstein's theory ofgravitational waves somentioned theo gravitational waves likekitakaron if welook at the surroundings we cannot seethe wavesso if we cannot see the wavesgravity because we cannot see iton concepts of verification theory ifthey cannot see it if they cannot feelitthen it is nonexistent so anotherexample for that we also have likequantum mechanicsand you know cunning among ourdiscoveries of physicsyama discovered like saturday on eyesand it's a feeling so you have to lookinto itso it can only be determinedonce you look in the box yourself so ifthe line monitor observancethen you cannot uh verify it so that'sone of the shortcomings or nagaminusverification theory nowi will read a story here and this willit will illustrate the point okayso suppose for instance this girl namedleia has a theory that her classmateayan likes her ohla good she thoughti like him too but how do i know that helikes meexcuse meshe began by observing him and hisinteractions with heryes that follows her scientific meshmethod by observing first delicaokay several gestures she noted includehe's alwaysexchanging pleasantries with herwhenever they bump into each otherhis big smile when he sees her and himgoing out of his wayto greet her even when riding a chimneyhighlightbecausethrough these observations she was thenable to conclude that ayandoes like her because she thought whywould anyone do something like that fora personhe does not like so inas it turns out however iron is justgenerally happy to meet people he knewhe had known leia since they were infirst year and regards her asa generally okay person it is nosurprise then that upon learning thatayan basicallydoes this to everyone leia was crushedhe found to herself that she would neverassume againso that's um what verificationtheory illustratesverified ability and less endlessso that is for verification theory whatabout falsificationtheory so falsificationtheory asserts that as long asideology is not proven false and canbest explain a phenomenon overalternative theorieswe should accept the sad ideologyso for example if wallacethen that should be trueso if wala pine in on false nathen if walai mahaprabhu nathan or thenit must be trueso so thistheory gave birth to othertheories or other among hypothesesnagi rejects a verification theoryso it encourages research in order todetermine which among the theories canstandthe test of falsification for example ifmulan tad ang theoryand like how many years thousands andthousands and thousands of yearswilla maha disprove ani thenit must be truei'll give you a concrete example maybeyou have learnedin module 1 aboutthe discovery that the earth is flatand then later it was discovered that itis notflat it's the earth is actuallyactually spherical so if like hundredsand hundreds of yearsif walay would disprove it's a theory ina flat angkalibutanwhat you are learning or what you areknowing is actuallynot true so that is a falsificationtheory so karl popperis the known pro proponent of theseviews here in oklahoma animefalsification theoryand scientific practice is characterizedby its continual effort to test theoriesagainstexperience and make revisions based ontheoutcomes of these tests so he wasnotorious for stating thatthere are actually um theoriesmy regard any falsification theory asfalsefor example we have sigmund freud'spsychoanalysispsychoanalysispsychoanalysis is false then it must betruebut if we base it on the falsificationtheoryamong scholars or scientists may join aconfused basilaif if scientificbuggy on psychoanalysis because it isnot testable the lysiamat testand the lipogamaka falsifying itspsychoanalysis so there are stillquestions up until now if thepsychoanalysisis scientific or nonscientificso it's actually up to you now let'sread a story again aboutregarding falsification theory so thestory earlierverification theory and this story nowisfalsification theory okay so iron isgenerally everybody'sfriend he likes to be around people andgenerally aspires to become everybody'sfriendhowever there is one girl leia who seemto notlike him when he is aroundevery time he waves at her she turnsawayand when they are in the same room sheavoidshis glancesthrough this he concluded that leia doesnotlike him and he does his best to showher that he is not a threathe began greeting her whenever theypassed by each other at the corridorevengoing so far as calling her attentionwhen he was in the chimney and saw herwalking past so when i should wantwhen they were able to talk to eachother he found out that leia is justreally shy and not accustomed to peoplegreeting herhe then was able to conclude that hisinitial impression of hernot liking him is wrong and that saidproposition is rejectedtheorynow falsely firehypothesis so that is aboutfalsification theory so there is noknownrule as to the number of instances thata theory is rejected or falsified inorder for it to beset asidetheoryScience technologysociety and the human condition actuallyfrom this PPT it has two parts so thefirst part is human flourishing and thesecond part is its second part is thisit's the nature of Science andTechnology in society all right so let'shave first with our learning outcome sowe do have three so first one is todiscuss what technology reveals secondis examine modern technology and itsrole in human flourishing explain therole of art in a technological worldwhich is the third part so we're goingto will talk more about them in ourstarting with our next slide all rightso here we do have human flourishing inscience and technologyso actually one would say flourishingit's a state where people experiencepositive emotions like positivepsychological functioning and positivesocial functioning and most of the timelike living within an optimal range ofhuman function functioning and also asdescribed here human flourishing isdefined as an effort to achieveselfactualization it's it's it's whereone realization or fulfillment of one'stalents and potentialities especiallyconsidered as a drive or need present ineveryone it's also fulfilment within thecontext of a larger community ofindividuals each with the right topursue his or her own efforts okay soall state states here that eat the thethe people or the humans are the bearerand which means we are like the carrieror we also have a hold and we can getthe benefit and we can also enjoy thethe things that we can have from scienceand technology also flourishes and findsmeaning in the world that he or shebuilds so we can haveum we can find signification in theworld that we can make all right solet's have the next slide here this isour we have the next like oh yeahalright so it says here in the pursuitof the good life it involves like therational use of once potentialitiesincluding like talents abilities andvirtues in the pursuit of his likefreely and rationally chosen found goalsbecause we were also all differentnobody's alikehe or she may unconsciously acquireconsume or destroy what the world has tooffer so in most of the time humanswhatever it takes to reach and to havethe means to an end as we all know thatwe are not that well can easily becontented with what we have all right sohere to be able to appreciate the fruitsof Science and Technologythey must be examined not only for theirfunction and instrumentality but alsofor their greater impact on humanity ashope says time changes elements thatcomprise the even flourishing alsochanges so which are subject to thedynamic social history as written by thehumans the various gadgets machinesappliances and vehicles are all toolsthat make the human lives easier becausethey serve as minson and as I mentionedfrom the previous light actually allright so now I cannot really see ok weare already in this slide ok so well Iam going to show you a videohow to live a good life that the basicphilosophical question Aristotle'sanswer was live virtuously do what avirtuous person would do and that willmake you happywell not exactly happy but you demoneudaimonia sometimes translated asflourishing is what we all want it's theone thing people seek for its own sakeeudaimonia isn't a matter of one or twomoments of bliss as Aristotle put it oneswallow doesn't make a summer it's theresult of a successful life lived welltogether with a bit of good luck in hisNicomachean ethics basically an earlyselfhelp book he explained how toflourish by cultivating the virtuesevery virtue is a disposition to behavein certain ways that lies between twoextremes courage feeling the fear butdoing it anyway lies between cowardicewhen you feel the fear and can't do itand recklessness when you don't feel thefear when you should generosity liesbetween stinkiness when you mean andprofligacy when you throw your moneyaround and so onthis is Aristotle's doctrine of thegolden mean whether you can actvirtuously or not in part depends on howyou've been brought up your moraleducation as well as on the choices youmake if that goes well you'll actappropriately and feel the appropriateemotions whatever situation you findyourself inall right so that's more of about humanflourishing and human condition allright so now let's have the next slidehere Wow it's there exist a discrepancybetween Eastern and Western conceptionregarding society and human flourishingso it has been observed that Westerncivilization tends to be more focused onthe individual while those from the eastare more communitycentric well fromWestern philosophy they have it likefragmentary while Eastern philosophy isholistic so the writers on Frank KaraSuriname claims that Eastern philosophyis concerned with general knowledgewhile the Western philosophy aims atspecific knowledge so an example givenby academic scholar is how ConfuciusAnalects deal with both the inner andouter life of a person which talks aboutholistic the general view of it whileAristotle's work emphasized how oneshould conduct one self to live wellamong others which is fragmentary so I'mgoing to show you another video here wego from the moment we are born we beginto develop our identities who are wewhat should we care about and how shouldwe relate to all these people around usas it turns out the way each of usanswers these questions largely dependson the culture we grow up in what amajor difference between cultures in theeast and the West is how they view theindividual in relation to thesome cultures tend to place moreimportance on the individualthey're known as individualistic or meetsociety's many Western societiesincluding those in the United StatesAustralia and large swathes of Europeare considered neat cultures people in ame culture believe each individual isresponsible for their own wellbeingtheir circle of responsibility extendsonly to their immediate family membersparents spouses or children they viewtheir responsibilities to others insociety like their neighbors orclassmates as limited after all they'realso individuals who should be takingcare of themselves on the other handsome cultures place more importance onthe group there called collectivistsocieties or wee cultures many Easterncultures including those in China Indiaand Japan are considered weak culturespeople in a weak cultureprioritize strong social ties andbelonging to a larger group these groupsmight include classmates neighbors andextended families and they strive forgroup harmony and believe the individualshould make the best decisions for theoverall wellbeing of their group if youtake care of the group they'll take careof youso how does this mean versus wedifference shape our behavior as itturns out this seemingly subtledistinction has some surprising effectsimagine two families each go out todinner the family from a meal culturemight consist of just four people twoparents and their two children thefamily from only culture would need amuch larger table to make room for twochildren their cousins and multiple setsof parents and grandparents at the meettable everyone would order the specificmeal they wanted when the food comesthey may trade a bite or two but for themost part each person would eat theirown meal at the wheat table on the otherhand multiple dishes would be orderedfor the whole table they'll be placed inthe center and all members of the familywould share that now let's say a familymember was running late how is eachtable likely to respond at the meattable people are expected to be mastersof their own fateso when teenage brother Lee arrives latethe family is more likely to attributehis tardiness to some fundamental aspectof Lee's personality like assuming he islazy or irresponsible at the Wii tableon the other hand they're more likely tosee Lee's behavior as part of a largercontext rather than blaming him forbeing lazy they may assume externalfactors were involved maybe there is anaccident on the road and leave thatcotton bad trafficthis tendency to either credit theindividual or the larger context appliesthe positive things to say Li was comingfrom a basketball game where he scored agamewinning shot at the me table wewould be celebrated as the hero hisindividual action on the game of a wholeteam in a celebratory toast we wouldlikely speak about how his hard workdetermination and focused led him tothis moment meanwhile at the we tablethe team's overall victory would becelebratedLee's toast would more likely focus onhow his teammates coaches and mentorsled to the team's successyou may even mention a larger contextlike the support of the team's schooladministration or fan baseboth of these viewpoints are true pleaseaction secure the victory but the team'seffort want the game there is noobjective right or wrong way to thinkabout individuals versus groups thatworks for one culture just may not workfor another it's also important toremember that culture is only one of themany factors that influence who we areso some people from a weak culture mayprioritize the individuals and some meetculture people may value theircommunities over themselves culture isnever all that we are but as one ofthose invisible forces that shape usit's well worth knowing a little moreabout so the next time the behavior ofsomeone from another culture seems weirdor even rude try asking yourself how didthey grow up to understand the worldcould my behavior seem as weird fromtheir viewpoint cultural differencesdon't hold all the answersbut they can help us begin to understandeach other and appreciate the richnessand variety of human societies okay allright that's a that's me versus weaveculture all right so here next slide isit says human flourishing as an ant thenis primarily more of a concern forWestern civilization's over Eastern oncewell actually with Western philosophydoes look at the ideas more closelygiving more specific answer findinganswers is what like a philosopher doesand vague answers from let's say Easternphilosophy doesn't really provide itbecause they always have like a generalanswer for everyone which is can be notapplicable to anyone or to everyone yeahall right so one here in all right sohere is in stepping back and takingstock of things we begin to wonder andquestion one may admire the intricacy ofmechanism and the sophistication ofmobile application so another may marvelat the people and circumstances thatallowed for such technologies if we'regoing to really like take a pause we canstart to ask of anything so a person canbe amazed on the complexity of thelatest model of smartphones and otherand others can praise like the peoplebehindthe maker of the invention wellaccording to mine of the philosopherMartin Heidegger questioning was notanything without thinking so thus in hisview a questioner is not a die centerrather they are listening so allquestioning he believed get started frominitial listening that which precedesand guides the questioner following thispointHeidegger delves into the spiritual andthe pious and the holy he's thoughtsconcerns the piety of thinking itselfthat's amazingall right so here let's have let's havethe next picture questioning is thepiety of thought yes as I mentioned thisis from Martin Heideggerand he is widely actually acknowledgedto be one of the most original andimportant philosopher or thinker of the20th century so there is so much wealthof insights that can be gathered whenpeople stop think and question soquestioning is the piety of thought thatis really true so as soon as you thinkmore you're like drawn more to it andactually Martin Heidegger stronglyopposes the view that technology is ameans to an endbecause I get or a human activitybecause I guess Martin Heidegger isthinking more more than more than whatthe literal thing that we can just seeall right so next slide is here sonormally piety is associated with beingreligious however it also meansobedience and Submission all right so yaPI T is like a strong belief in a in areligion that is shown in the waysomeone lives or it's like a devotionall right so next one is here inaddressing that what technology hasbrought forth one cannot help but besubmissive to what his or her thoughtsand reflections elicits it is when westart questioning what that we submitourselves to our thoughts as I'vementioned the more we think of somethingthe more we are curious of somethingit's like we are more drawn to itso we'relooking more answers to it we're goingto research more about it all rightthere and here so it is when we startquestioning that we yep submit ourselvesto our thoughts so this kind ofquestioning leads one to search for hisor her place in the universe and he thegrand scale of things it is through thisprocess that one builds a weight towardsknowing the truth of who or she is asbeing in this world of course it's likesome people are going to ask themselveslike we also asked ourselves like what'smy purpose for God to think more aboutour life what I'm going to do for thefor the next five years or for the nextten years why something where this kindof incident happened to me we haveeverything that happens or everyone whosurrounds us we as soon as we stop andwe try to to reflect and think we aregoing to get more questions and moreanswers to it we'll just have to changeor how long will it take but I guessit's there that's the beauty of of lifewe're going to know more about our lifeyour life everyone alright so next oneis we have in framing it's a way ofrevealing into modern technology soactually in framing means that it's away of revealing which holds us weightor has the power in the essence ofmodern technology and which is its selffrom North a technological this isactually according to Heidegger 1977 soit says here the way of revealing inmodern technology is Adam framing insimpler terms it is as if nature is putin a box or inside a frame so that itcan be better understood and controlledaccording to people's desires sotechnology as in framing is the mode inwhich everything comes into the open andmakes sense for usWow all right so let's try the nextslide in looking at the world two waysof thinking are distinguished so thefirst one is calculative thinking so ifone orders and puts a system to natureso it can be understood better andcontrolled so it is more technical kindof human thought okay more technicalkind of vemma thoughts in which peoplegather information and put it togetherin order to put it to some specific useso calculative thinking is always amusedwith a mankind as it is necessary to themore practical activities andmotivations of life it is the moreactive aspects of human thoughtconcerned more with the doing of a thingthen of considering the possiblepossible consequences the other hand wehave the mid digit of thinking it onelets nature reveal itself to him or herwithout forcing it so this one itinvolves something much deeper thanpractical calculation and it takes muchmore effort so meditative thinking tellsus why we should do or should not do athing beyond the simple calculativeprocess of actually doing it soaccording to Heidegger meditativethinking is not limited to simply comingup with reasons why  or not to do athing meditation is not limited toexpanding on calculation and it does notnecessarily have to have an end ofproduct as does calculations socalculation we expect to have a productbut it's not the same with meditativethinking so we need only to dwell onwhat lies close simply for the sake ofthe dwelling and because this is what wedo because we are human yeah actuallycalculative thinking it's like aprogrammed Android or a programmed robotalright so let's move on to the nextslide and it's not moving okay that'sfantastic all right so we have this partso what kind of thinking is not initself betterthan the others of the human person hasthe Faculty for both and would do wellto use them in synergy Wow so it wouldseem on the surface that calculativethinking is more important since withoutit we could not actually build a homecure a disease or simply drive a car toa job we could not go through with anyaction without using calculationcompared to that meditation seems to benothing but aimless thought howeverHeidegger conceived considers meditativethinking to perhaps be even more crucialhe considers meditative thought to bethe cornerstone of human nature and theprimary aspect that makes us human andseparates us from from other animals doyou think meditative meditativelytherefore we are human and we are fardifferent from animals all right I'lljust have to show you the the totalityor like the summary of everything aboutthe human condition about in framing PIT of of thinking or thoughts but yeahwe'll just have to finish every otherevery slice for the first part okaylet's move on to use it next one oh hereso we have human person swallowed bytechnology Wowso although we know today thattechnology is very important becausewell it is used for almost everythingand like everything so modern technologyhas paved the way for multifunctionaldevices like the SmartWatch and thesmartphone Smart TVs computers areincreasingly faster more portable so Ican still remember before we do havelike a big motor monitor for desktopcomputer but now we could just have ourlaptops smaller than laptops thinnerlighter okay and also we have higherpowered than everdevices than before okay so it says herewith all these revolutions technologieshas also made our lives thatthe best part easier faster better andmore fun okay so before everyone or likesome teenagers or people play da da I'musing a computer but now we do have likemobile legends in a mobile phone or I'veheard there's like an lol into mobilephone so that's how our technology isgetting more advanced so it says herealthough it is true that the individualit takes part in the revealing of naturelimits must still be recognized sohumans really do not call the shots onthis earth that is true humans cannotjust make decisions for our planet allright this one is beautifulnext picture if we allow ourselves toget swallowed by modern technology welose the essence of who we are as beingsin this world that's true so people aremore dependent on new technology man nolonger needs to think even if thecalculator is a good invention man nolonger makes mental calculation and nolonger works his memory right so even ifit's a simple calculation we really haveto grab our smart phones open thecalculator app it's also the decline ofhuman capital it implies an increase inunemployment in some areas devices canreplace the human mind that's truebefore I remember there was I cannotreally remember exactly which where didI read that that article but it saysbefore or maybe I watch it in a moviebut before it's it's like for for thosepeople who are working in the banks theydo like manual calculation of everythinglike the accountant or so on but laterwhen the computer exists existed andyeah they it also helped people to to tomake the work faster but some not allpeople still have the job because of ofa new technology some people might losetheirjobs so it's not that yeah itsadvantages but not for everyone as I'vesaid before especially right now forbecause we are facing this pandemic wedo have our online classes but beforethis thing happened in the world yeahthis is already predicted likeespecially other countries who doesn'tor  do not have English as their mediumof Education or of learning instructionthey are learning English online solet's say Korean or Japanese people orthe Chinese people they also have tohave like classes online to learn somesome subjects or some some classes so weare also like thinking some people arealso thinking I am also thinking thatsooner or later we do have like robotteacher an Android teacher so I amreally thinking that there will be nomore teachers next I don't know for howmany years after possibly with thenurses the Dockers they will be replacedwith with robots but yeah I'm not surewhen will that happen but yeah it's kindof its kind of happened well let's havethe next picture here alright so if weare constantly plugged online and thelonger have the capacity for authenticpersonal encounters then we truly we aretruly swallowed by technology that isreally true so with that I'm going toshow you another video how technologyhas ruined social interaction by Daveyand Obi is this your family dad in theliving room on this laptop what time isdinner honeydaughter in the kitchen on our PCgetting hungry mom son on his desktop inhis room I'll take dinner on mine roomthanks no one speaks facetofaceanymore everyone is so busy with theirsmartphones and personal computers thatthey fail to notice what's going onaround them the office is no differentthe boss sends a message to hisassistant the assistant emails thesupervisor and the supervisor eventuallyshares with the team never speakingfacetoface and without talking inperson the work just continues to paolathings just get worse and worsetechnology isn't all bad though it's agreat tool for keeping families togethertake for example the cell phone it hasmade staying in touch easier and saferthan ever beforekids now have instant access to a 911operator in cases of emergency there'salso the convenience from teens beingable to contact their parents pick themup for practice or mom calling dad tostop and grab a carton of milk on theway home they're also getting smarterand smaller and becoming even moreversatile they are like regular phoneson steroids parents are always beingsurprised with unexpected challenges bycoming up with quick nonscientificanswers to questions a son my ass is momwhy is the sky blue for a daughter whydoes the earth spinor maybe why does the moon come outduring the day the smartphone has madeanswers to these questions only a fewclicks away whether it's astronomychemistry meteorology or medicinetechnology helps you find that answerquickly and easily technology has alsobeen great for businessthe cellphone has become a lifeline forstaying in touch when on the roadtechnology has also removed the strictrestriction from happening to mail outprint ads and email and online chat hasbrought businesses even closer to theircustomers technology was created to helpus communicate better what it has doneis allowed us to not truly communicateat all70% of teens aged 13 to 17 now havesmartphones 92% of them report goingonline daily including 20% who areonline almost constantly something mustbe done to address these issues changinghabits will absolutely be difficult butthere are steps that can be taken toreduce our dependency on technologyfirst make dinnertime a cellfree zoneclosing the door to spend ties withloved ones as a central tour will benext play what do I know without my cellphonerelying on our memories rather than oursmartphones will keep us mentally sharpfinally don't be afraid to be bored weshould take the time to reflect on ourgreatest memories thus far chances arenone of them involved our cell phones weshould also look at how we communicateat work too many people try to doeverything via emailthis often consumes more time than justpicking up the phone each week timeshould be dedicated to facetofacemeetingcontext and purpose should also beconsidered if you are concerned aboutthe response email with this finehowever when giveandtake is requirednothing works better than getting out ofyour chair and speaking to a personfacetoface this is a great way to cutdown on confusion and a cute abilityassociated with written messagestechnology certainly has a part to playand how we communicate at home andnetwork choosing the appropriate time toutilize technology and when not see isan important skill we all must learnthank you for listening alright so thereyou go now let's have the next slideokay so here we have the art as a wayout of in framing so here the poetrythat is found in nature can no longer beeasily appreciated when nature is inframed so if the earth has just be justbecome a gas station for us that we havebecome and framed as well so technologyreveals the world as a raw materialavailable for production andmanipulation so that's it that'semphasized in framing and the next onehere is modern technology the way ofrevealing is no longer poetic it ischallenging when instruments areobserved linearly it's it's poetry canno longer be found so why is technologynot like not a human activitiesaccording to Heidegger there issomething wrong with with the moderntechnological culture we live in todayin our age of Technology reality canonly be present as a raw material aslike a standing reserve so this state ofaffairs has not been brought about byhumans the technological way ofrevealing was not chosen by humansrather our understanding of the worldour understanding of being of what itmeans to be develops through the ages soin our time being has the character of atechnological framework from whichhumans approach the world in acontrolling and umnatan way all right so now we'll help Iguess this is the last slide from thisfrom the first part here although inframing happens it cannot completelysnuff out the poetic character oftechnology so we pondered technology andquestioned it in so doing we also becomeaware of the crisis we have plunged theearth into the danger is made prescientand more palpable through our art andpoetry so the ultimate danger is humansas raw materials it's the will to powerso the solution is the release ment sothe will not to will so every attempt toclimb out of technology throws us backin the only way out for Heidegger is yepthat's the will not to will so that'sthe only way in which we cannot we canwe can I'm sorry we can't let things beand we can maybe develop an openness fordifferent interpretations of the worldaround us beyond that will that will topower and manipulation where everythingbecomes raw material so we need to weneed to open up the possibility ofrelying on technologies while notbecoming enslaved to them and seeingthem as manifestations of of anunderstanding of being alright so thereyou go so that's the last slide here andthe next part is the nature of scienceand technology but before we we beforeI'm going to end this I'm going to showyou as I mentioned before a video I it'slike a summary of Martin Heidegger thequestion of a question concerningtechnology yeah so let's have it tryokay open ittechnology today when we think oftechnology we instantly think of thetools that are integrated into oureveryday routines and this alright sothat was shocking alright just have toadjust italright essentially they're there tomake life easier for us like a TV themicrowave an air conditioner a laptop acamera beats headphone and iPhone thelist continues on and on and on and onand sometimes we don't even think twiceabout what technology does for us everyday we even take it for grantedtechnology now is as natural to us as itis riding a bike we think of technologyas a means to an end as well as a humanactivity but what exactly the istechnology what do all technologicalthings have in common we are going todiscover what exactly technology is andMartin Heidegger is the questionconcerning technology I'll try to keepthe Heidegger isms to a limit by tryingto simplify his concepts as well as makethis an enjoyable presentation for youas it is for meso yes technology is a means to an endotherwise known as to instrumental and ahuman activity otherwise known as theanthropological is this statement enoughfor Heidegger no of course not it'sHeidegger he says yes it is technicallycorrect but not adequate enough todefine what technology really is so inorder for us to fully comprehendtechnology we need to have a freerelationship to it and we will discussexactly what Heidegger means by thatlater on it is also important that inHeidegger world that we do not dotechnology the way we think of itcurrently which are instrumentum ortools or aids such as the iPhone glassesor even Donald Trump's toupee butinstead we are seeking technology'sessence it is crucial for Heidegger andalso for us that we know that technologydoes not equal to technology's essencewhen we discover technology's essence wediscovered the commonthat all technology share but let'srewind a bit technology is a means to anend and a human activity but suppose nowthat technology we're no mere means howwould it stand with the will to masteritwe will not find its essence if we thinkconceptually but rather we need toapproach this metaphysically Heideggermoves away from this idea ofinstrumental versus anthropological andnow we dig deeper into his philosophicalside wherever there's an effect there isa cause technology isn't instrumentum sowherever instrumentality reigns therereigns causality Heidegger now divesinto Aristotle's metaphysics ofcausality otherwise known as the fourcauses Heidegger uses the silver chaliceas an example in explaining these causesso first we have the causa a materialistthe matter or material of which it ismeat and in this case we have the silversecondly we have the cause of for malicethe logos or form structure in which itis she in this case a chalice curvedform thirdly the causa fix the ends thesource of the change arrest it bringsabout what is made in this case thesilversmith and last but not least thefourth cause to cause of finale's thefinal effect and reason of why it ismade in this case two sacrificial rightand voilawhat is revealed this silver Heideggeroften refers to the unconcealed net webring forth from nothing we think of anidea and make it into something tangibleunconcealed it echoes Althea Althea isGreek for truth technology is a mode ofrevealing technology comes to presencein the realm we're revealing andunconcealed may take place where Albeatruth happens reintroduce meaning wherethere used to be a big conception buthow is technology revealing Heideggerinfers that we must think of revealingor bringing forth as police's not onlyhandicraft manufacture not only artisticand poetical bringing into appearanceand concrete imagery is a bringing forthpoesis in other words we must besensitive and so to speak poetic to whatis for what presences are laid outbefore us another important termHeidegger mentions is the word technewhich is skill technique and also thearts of the mind and the Fine Artstechniquebelongs to bringing forth to poesis itis something poetic when one encompassesboth poesis and tech name one can revealto us so based on all this informationis a safe to say that technology'sessence is that it reveals althaea ortruth to us mmm according to Heideggeryes but noHeidegger uses the silver chalice toconvey causality but can this conceptapply to modern technology moderntechnology goes beyond causality and ithas also changed a pattern revealingsomething quite different and radicallynew what is modern technology it is toorevealingonly when we allow our attention to reston this fundamental characteristic doesthat which is new in modern technologiesshow itself to us so are we only worriedabout technology the essence oftechnology because we are scared of whatwe created into the world this is one ofthe fundamental questions that Heideggertries to find an answer to how is moderntechnology any different there issomething very distinctive about moderntechnologywe go farther away from poesis and moretowards techne in which the revealingthat rules and modern technology is achallenging which puts to nature theunreasonable demand that is supplyenergy that can be extracted and storedas such unlike earlier times when mansimply brings forth today man challengesforth in other words we use andmanipulate the resources nature gives tous to manufacture to create or to revealtechnology that is manmadehowever Heidegger goes on to say thatalthough the windmill is a technologicaldevice mean by man the idea ofchallenging does not apply here insteadthe wind is left as is yes we use it forenergy but the windmill does not unlockenergy from the air currents in order tostore it the windmill is technology thatsatisfies human without hurting natureand when Heidegger imposes here is thatperhaps we need more of thesetechnologies then on the other end ofthe spectrum man challenges resourceswhen he mines coal or when he cultivateshis farm soilagriculture is now the mechanized foodindustry air is now set upon to yieldnitrogen the earth to yield or or toyield uranium for example uranium is setupon to yield atomic energy which can bereleased either foraction or for peaceful use when wechallenged nature's resources we alwayswant the maximum yield at the minimumexpense so what do we also do we storeenergy if we are not using it suchchallenging happens and that the energyconcealed in nature is unlockedwhat is unlocked is transformed what istransformed is stored up what a storedup is in turn distributed and what isdistributed is switched about ever andnew according to Heidegger these arealways a revealing but it is revealingthat never comes to an end now this iswhere it gets trickyHeidegger often uses a term to stunnedor the standing reserve to essentiallydescribe how man perceives resources manno longer sees them for what theyactually are but instead sees them asways to fulfill man's needsHeidegger uses to Reyn a famous EuropeanRiver as an example he argues that manno longer sees de Rhine for what it iswhich is a large body of water a riverso we don't see it as this or this orthis but instead we see the Rhine asthis this band this instead ahydroelectric plant is sent into thecourage of the Rhine to produceelectricity for man man does not see therivers natural tendency as the ratheronly sees the power it will give to himand therefore he sees it as a standingreserve another term Heideggerfrequently uses if guests tell or inframing we challenge and see things asstanding reserves because we areconstantly in framing everything aroundus and framing means the gatheringtogether of that studying upon whichsets upon man ie challenges and forth toreveal the real in the mode or orderinga standing reserve when we in frame weunconcealed the standing reserve we losesight of the things that do not fit inthe standing reserved category back intoconcealment when we in frame as humanswe always view how nature should fitwith us instead of viewing how we shouldfit with nature we are very narcissisticrace in general Heidegger says thatinstead of allowing nature as detour togive and to reveal on its own termsbringing forth we in frame and take itsresources for granted and appropriatethem as standing reserves when we seethis we actually see this when we seethis weactually see this and when we see thiswe unfortunately see this we arequestioning concerning technology inorder to bring to light our relationshipto its essence in framing is the essenceof modern technology does this mean thatwe see the entire world as our standingreserve let's look at a contemporaryexample that eloquently addresses thestanding reserve the Castel or inframing and also Heidegger concernsabout men at the peak of human survivalwe still use or in frame the universe asan alternate home we've completelydestroyed Mother Earth because wecontinue to enflame and see it as ourstanding reserve where in framing rainsthere's danger in the highest sense wesee the danger that technology has onthe world today like pollution theextinction of animals and global warmingthe amount of stuff and garbage weaccumulate over time can very well be ascene right out of walleHeidegger conveys that technology canwork against us that not only are weharming nature we are also harmingourselves but going back to poesisHeidegger also in first the systemframing is also a way of revealing manalso has the power to save but wheredanger is grows the saving power alsopoetically dwelled man upon this earthfundamentally if we realize how ourorientation fits with the world andrealize that we in frame the worldaround us we can save ourselves from thedamage in framing has done when we dothis we achieve a free relationship withtechnology yes according to Heidegger wecannot escape the fate of Technology butwe should always question technology inorder to avoid such catastrophes such asglobal warming we must question how touse technology without hurting the worldaround us we need to go back to not onlyencompassing techne but alsoencompassing more police's Heideggersurmises that the human race as a wholeneed to be more like poets in bringingforth as poets or artists we need to seethe world for what it is because art andpoetry also reveals Althea Althea istruth and technology reveals just thatwith this own conceitall right so there you go that's thelike a video summary of everything thatwe have for the first part of our PPTwhich is about human flourishing andalso yep the the the realm of art andtechnological world and Martin Heideggerand everything subject of sciencetechnology and societytake note i we are already donewith our understanding the self playlisti have also my industrial psychologyplaylist andethics so if you want to get to knowmore about this one you can watch all ofthosevideos so just a sort just for you torefresheverything what i have said throughoutour discussionokay so in this videos i'll beexplaining to you the topic ofhuman flourishing okay so what is humanflourishing how do we flourish as humanshave you questioned yourselfhow did i become successful forcefultake note we have different definitionsand how we consider ourselves successfulokay so let's try to go back in time solet's talk about aristotle so how didaristotle definehuman flourishing okay flourish okay soaccording to aristotlehe described humans in the in thepeak of being happy and he describedus he described me as good spiritedokay as good spirited in the idea ofhaving good friendship having havingwealth and powerso if you're going to think aristotlereallydefined human as being good especiallyopponents that we can say that we aregood spirited it reallydepends on the person who is who istrying to define the idea of being happybut this are the idea of aristotle okaybecause in the ancientgreek society they truly believe that ifyou acquire those qualitiesthose so therefore if you acquire thequalities of being good spiritedit is easy for you to to partake intoit into the goodness of humans so thatis the idea of ancient greek societyso that's why aristotle trying to definehumans in the idea of being happybecause take note if you are happyyou are capable of doing good things ifyou are happy you arecapable to build good relationship withothersto share your your wealth to others andalso the power so that is the idea ofancientgreek societybut take note as times changeelements that trying to define humanflourishing also changeokay because there are a lot of thingsthat are happening around us andsometimes the way we definedthe way we define human flourishing alsochangeit is because of the the changes that weare currentlyembarking right okay soas of today we peoplepeople found means to live morecomfortablyto to explore more places develop moreproductsand making more money okay and thentrying to repeat the processthe process in full circle so trying tolive comfortablymaking a lot of money so that is theidea of aristotle that he tries to seethat because of the changes that we arecurrently experiencing as humansthe idea of human flourishing alsochangeso for example in the beginningearly people in the beginning earlypeople relied on justsimple machines simple life simpletechnologies but as timepasses by because of the changes becauseof the dynamic of our socialhistory what happened you must as we arewe are investing onewe are investing on more sophisticatedand more advanced technologists that'swhat we have nowso that's the idea of what is the toolthat because of the dynamic socialhistorythe way we define human flourishing hashas changed people change ourenvironmentis also changing and the way you seethings now is also changingand that is the dynamic social historythat we have nowokay so so our concept sotake note our concept of humanflourishingtoday differsto what aristotle trying to explain itto usbecause humans of today we are known tobea man of the world so what does it meanwhat is a man of the worlda man of the world in such a way that weare trying toto fit in we are trying to situateourselvesin the global neighborhood we are tryingto fit in we are trying to blendin so that's the idea of aristotle aboutthe man of the worldand and according to aristotlecompetitionas a means of survival has been hasbecome out of dateand the new trend now because of thedynamic social historyis the coordination we need tocoordinate withothers we need to blend in with othersfor for our means of survival assume usso that's why the idea of humanflourishing of aristotlehas has has been changed because of ourdynamic social historyso the way you define being successfulis different from the way i definesuccessful or being successful so wehave we have different notion on how wesee thingswe have different notions and how weconsider ourselves as being successfulso that is the idea of human flourishingso let's try to seethe discrepancy between the eastern andthe western conception regarding societyand human flourishingso take note that it has been observedthat westernthat western people they are morefocused on being individualisticwhat does it mean western people theyare soindividualistic they are focused onthemselves only they are just concernedaboutthe things that they are doing well theeastern people is there are more focuson the community so we are part of theeasterneastern conception of easterncivilizationwe are more community centric we try tocoordinate with others we try to blendin with others we try to fit inourselves with others and that's how wedefinehuman flourishing okay soindividualistic are the westerncivilization western peoplefocus on themselves the easternthe eastern people is we areso community centric okayso human flourishing are more intothe western but we are not alsodisregarding the idea of the easternconceptionso let's try to focus on the westernokayso the greek aristotelian viewthe aim for human happiness is theultimate goodness of manbut he is not focused only on theon the individual according to aristotleis if ever a person achievedthis kind of state it will it willlead him to become community centric andit really depends on him if the personisis willing to to coordinate with othersalthough he is from the western thewestern point of viewbut it really depends on the person ifhe really wants to coordinate withothersbecause according to aristotle humanflourishing is not only focusedwith himself the human flourishing alsofocuson the idea of being with the communityso for example if i am from the westernwestern sidei need to to do things to make mesuccessfulbut as part of being successful is iwill also do things for the communityand that's how i defined humanflourishingbut it entails a lot of deliberation ineed tomatch my values to the things that whatto the things that i want to do with mylife so that to feel to feel the essenceof human flourishingokay so that is the idea of aristotleso because of the current stance ofglobalization what happenedflourishing borders because of a lot ofchangesbecause we are so open we can do a lotof things what happened nowaccess to culture so we can we can blendin because of the idea ofhuman flourishingwe are so open we are free to do thingsand as a result sometimes we tend to toforget the idea of our own originalphilosophies in lifeand because of the idea of trying tocoordinatewith others we try to to forget thethings that are important to us so thatisthat is the effect of our globalizationthe idea of connecting with otherssometimes we tend to lose ourselvesokay but this is not true to all sodon't worrybecause because i think globalization isalso good itit changes our perception to somethinggood we can dothings but we should always maintain ourour own our own selves as long as we aredoing the right thingso i think that is the main idea ofaristotle in the idea of humanflourishingokay so because of this idea it is inthis regard that we wouldwe would tackle the idea of humanflourishing in a global perspectiveas a man of the world okay so we willtry toembrace the idea of of human flourishingin aglobal perspective and as a man of theworldokay so this one let's try toto to see the idea of science technologyand human flourishingokay so let's try to see the idea ofscience technology andhuman flourishing so every discoveryinnovation and success contributesto our pool of human knowledge soeverything you see now contributes toour human knowledgethat's why a lot of scientists a lot ofuha lot of people are trying to discover alot of things nowokay so as we try to fit in we tryto to create our own thing because ofthe influence of science and technologyrightwe tried to discover a lot of things wetried to create ournew products we tried to create newtrendnew news new cell phones oranything just to mark our own traitsright in this journey asas humans okay so it is in this regardthatthat human flourishing is alsointertwined with the idea of ofgoal setting or having something toachieve for examplein the idea of human flourishing i wantto help others i want to counselothers so what is my purpose my purposeis tois to feel the idea of or to feel theidea of selfimportance i want to have arole in the societyi will not focus on me alone i ami will also deal with others so i needto extendhelp with others so that is my role andi think it'svery important to know what is your goalin this lifeto feel the idea of human flourishingright and if you're going to if you'regoing to see a lot of people a lot ofyoungscientists are trying to discover morebecause of this pandemicbecause we need your statement thattechnology is a human activity that weexcelas a result of achieving science sobecause of the technology that we arehaving nowit is part of our human activity we aretrying to discover a lot of things a lotmore so we will not stay tostay to what we are now we are trying todiscover a lot of things and that is theresult of achieving sciencebecause of achieving science sotake note that we are tryingto develop things because we want tolivea more comfortable life or a moremore productive life so i think that isthe role ofscience technology and the idea of humanflourishingso take note that human flourishingscience and technology they are relatedand because dig in to dig in the idea ofof science technology and humanflourishingokay so let's try to explain this ideascience as methodand results so let's try toto talk about this one the verificationtheorydo you think science is true so let'stry toto see if science is istrue or not so let's try to use theverification theoryokay so let's try to use theverification theoryso one of the criteria wherein we cantellthat that something is true or not is touse the idea ofverification theory group of scholarsbelieve that only those soduring the vienna circle a group ofscholarsbelieve that only those which can beobserved shall be regarded as meaningfulbut those but those which cannot beobserved can be regarded as meaninglessokay so so the verification theorytries to explain to us ifif one if a thing can be observed it ismeaningfulif it cannot be observed it ismeaningless so we need to reject itwe only accept things that can beobserved so that is the ideaof verification theory that's whyscience isis is true in the idea because it triestoto see things that are that can beobservedthat's according to the verificationtheory if thingsare not observable therefore it is itcanit should be rejected or cannot beacceptedokay so this one the falsificationtheoryso how can you tell that science is truethey are also using the idea offalsification theoryso what is falsification theoryokay so according to falsificationtheoryit also assert that as longthat as long as an ideology is notproven to be falseand can best explain a phenomenon overalternative theorieswe shall accept the said ideology okaylet's try to make it simple thefalsification theoryas long as the idea is not yet proven tobe falseand it can be and and it can be bestexplained bysome alternative hypothesis or theorytherefore we should accept the idea orthe said ideologyso as what you can see the falsificationtheorytries to weight things think about it sowe should accept that ideologyso because of its very open character avery hospitable characterbecause because he still tries toto make some assumption to make someanalysis whether to reject or not torejectcompared to verification theory if it ifit if itcan be observed we should accept ifcannot be observed we should reject orwe should not accept so thefalsification theorytries to wave things tries to see theother optionso take note because of this ideathe shift to this theory allowed emergesof theoristsotherwise rejected by verificationtheorybecause of the falsification theory alot of theory that was rejected duringthe verification theory waswas transferred was shifted to the ideaof falsification theoryokay so that is that is the idea offalsificationtheory trying to wave things if it canbeaccepted or not if there are if there'sa chance that the theoryis can be accepted if there is truthabout itso we should accept it so that is thefalsificationtheory okayso this one science as social endeavorso do you believe that science is oneway of interacting with othersfor me yes science a social endeavorbecausebecause of science as what you can seenow because ofscience because of technologywe can connect to a lot of people we canbuild bridges with other peoplewe can communicate with them we canattach with them we can ask themespecially now that we are doing onlinewithout technologyhow can we connect with the with ourloved onesthat's why social as science as a socialendeavorand a lot of a lot of severalphilosophersexplores the the social dimension ofscience technologyand human flourishing and a lot ofpeople are trying to explain the ideaabout this oneokay so don't you know that because ofsciencea lot of people are trying to to get thebenefit because of science andand this is the idea that science alsoconsidered as a social endeavorso as what as well you can see becauseof science we can go beyondwe are not we are not stagnant we arenotwe are not the same as before so we aretrying to evolve we are trying towe're trying to to make some change tomark our own selves in thewithin our society so next is thescience uhand result it's not the only disciplinewhich is able to produce results sothere are a lot of things that canproduce results science is not the onlydisciplinethat can produce results so thereforeif science is not the only disciplinethat can produce resultscience is not entirely foolproofso therefore there is a chance thatscience can is not hundred percentall the hundred percent all the timethat science is not foolproofand science does not claim the idea ofdefinite resultsso there is a tendency that there isan error when you talk about science isnot the only discipline that can produceresults okay so science askseducation so what does it meanso so if if you're a student if you aretrying toto explore science if you if you reallywanted to pursueyou the idea of human flourishing ii think it would be better if you willembrace the idea ofhuman flourishing in a very holistic wayokayso a lot of things should be considereda lot of thingsshould be should be done before we cancome up with the idea ofscience technology and human flourishingokay we need to socialize with others wecannot do this alone that's why a lot ofa lot of students are trying to to goto study abroad to get scholarship hereto get a lot of thingsbecause we need to socialize in order tounderstand the ideaof human flourishing is we need to learnhow to socialize with othersokay so take note that we arethat as humans we are capable we arecapable to possessintellectual virtues and as humanswe need to blend in with others we needto coordinate with others to knowto know the real idea of humanflourishing it is not all about mewhen you talk about human flourishing italso you will also be talking abouta lot of things a lot of components anda lot of factorsokay so a true happiness a truehappiness recognizes that flourishingrequires me to excel in variousdimensionokay so take notehuman flourishing at the true happinessof humans isrequires me to excel in variousdimension requires me to do my best in everythingthatthat i wanted to do with my life it isnot it is notfixed we need to move we need to moveforward that is the idea ofhuman flourishing in relation to sciencetechnologyand human flourishing The good lifeAristotleancient Greekphilosopherknown for hisnaturalphilosophy. logicand politicaltheoryMore on Aristotle:one of tile greatest thinkers in the history of western science andphilosophy. making contributions to logic, metaphysics,mathematics. physics. biology, botany, ethics. politics. agriculture.medicine. dance and theatre.first to classify areas of human knowledge into distinct disciplinessuch as mathematics, biology, and ethics.founder of the Lyceum. the first scientific institute, based inAthens. Greece.one of the strongest advocates of a liberal arts education. whichstresses the education of the whole person, including one's moralcharacter. rather than merely learning a set of skills.Nicomachean Ethics 2:2All human activitiesaim at some good.Every art andhuman inquiry. andsimilarly everyaction and pursuit .is thougllt to ainl atsome good; and forthis reason the goodhas been rightlydeclared as that atwhich all thingsaim.What is meant by good life?living in comfort andluxury with fewproblems or worries.characterized byhappiness from livingand doing wellcontentWhat is eudimonia?came from the Greek word eu meaning"good" and daimon meaning "spirit"refers to the good life marked by happinessand excellence.flourishing life filled with meaningfulendeavors that empower the human person tobe the best version of himself/herself.Aristotle's view of good lifethe activity of the soul in accordance withvirtue. believed that good for humans is themaximum realization of what was unique tohumans.the good for humans was to reason well.The task of reason was to teach humans howto act virtuously, and the exercise faculties inaccordance with virtue.Virtuesbehavior sllowing high moral standards."paragons of virtue"synonyms: goodness, virtuousness, righteousness.morality. ethicalness, uprightness, upstandingness,integrity, dignity. rectitude, honesty. honorableness.honorability, honor. incorruptibility, probity.propriety, decency, respectability, nobility, nobility ofsoul/spirit, nobleness, worthiness. worth. good,trustworthiness, meritoriousness, irreproachableness,blamelessness, purity, pureness, lack of corruption.merit; principles, high principles. ethics"the simple virtue and integrity of peasant life"Nicomachean Ethics 2:1Virtue, then, being of two kinds,intellectual and moral, intellectual virtue inthe main owes its birth and growth inteaching ( for its reason it requiresexperience and thne). While moral virtuecomes about as a result of habitThe Virtues:Intellectual virtuetheoretical wisdom(thinking anf truth)practical wisdomunderstanding.Experience and timeare necessaryrequirements for thedevelopment ofintellectual virtueMoral virtuecontrolled by practicalwisdom (ability tomake right judgment)owed its developmentto how one nurtured itas habit.can be learnedHappiness to Aristotle"Happiness depends on ourselves."central purpose of human life and a goal initselfdepends on the cultivation of virtue.a genuinely happy life required the fulfillmentof a broad range of conditions, includingphysical as well as mental wellbeing.Happiness as the Ultimate Purpose ofHuman Existencehappiness is a final end or goal thatencompasses the totality of one's life.It is not something that can be gained orlost in a few hours, like pleasurablesensations.It is more like the ultimate value of your lifeas lived up to this moment, measuring howwell you have lived up to your full potentialas a human being.Science and Technology and GoodLifeScience and technology is also the movement towards good life.Science and technology are one of the highest expressions ofhuman faculties.Science and technology allow us to thrive and flourish if we desireit.Science and technology may corrupt a personScience and technology witll virtue can helpan individual to beout of danger.Why is it that everyone is in thepursuit of the good life?"Life is good! It is only our thoughts, choices andactions towards the situations we meet in life eachmoment of time that makes life look bad! The same badsituation in life that makes one person think badlyinspires another to do a noble thing! The same goodsituation in life that makes one person feel so good toget into a bad situation inspires another person tocreate anotller good situation because of the goodsituation. It is all about thoughts, choices and actions!Life is good! Live it well!"— Ernest Agyemang YeboahOne must find the truth about whatthe good is before one can even try tolocate that which is good.The Good Life 1. . Aristotle ancient Greek philosopher known for his natural philosophy. logic and political theory2. . More on Aristotle: one of the greatest thinkers in the history of western science and philosophy, making contributions to logic, metaphysics, mathematics, physics, biology, botany, ethics, politics, agriculture, medicine, dance and theatre. first to classify areas of human knowledge into distinct disciplines such as mathematics, biology, and ethics. founder of the Lyceum, the first scientific institute, based in Athens, Greece. one of the strongest advocates of aliberal arts education, which stresses the education of the whole person, including one's moral character, rather than merely learning a set of skills.3. Nicomachean Ethics 2:2 All human activities aim at some good. Every art and human inquiry, and similarly every action and pursuit , is thought to aim at some good; and for this reason the good has been rightly declared as that at which all things aim.4. What is meant by good life? living in comfort and luxury with few problems or worries. characterized by happiness from living and doing well content5. . What is eudimonia? came from the Greek word eu meaning “good” and daimon meaning “spirit”. refers to the good life marked by happiness and excellence. flourishing life filled with meaningful endeavors that empower the human person to be the best version of himself/herself.6. . Aristotle’s view of good life the activity of the soul in accordance with virtue. o believed that good for humans is the maximum realization of what was unique to humans. o the good for humans was to reason well. o The task of reason was to teach humans how to act virtuously, andthe exercise faculties in accordance with virtue.7. Virtue/s behavior showing high moral standards. "paragons of virtue" synonyms: goodness, virtuousness, righteousness, morality, ethicalness, uprightness, upstandingness, integrity, dignity,rectitude, honesty, honorableness, honorability, honor, incorruptibility, probity, propriety, decency, respectability, nobility, nobility of soul/spirit, nobleness, worthiness, worth, good, trustworthiness, meritoriousness, irreproachableness, blamelessness, purity, pureness, lack of corruption, merit; principles, high principles, ethics "the simple virtue and integrity of peasant life"8. Nicomachean Ethics 2:1 Virtue, then, being of two kinds, intellectual and moral, intellectual virtue in the main owes its birth and growth in teaching ( for its reason it requires experience and time). While moral virtue comes about as a result of habit9. The Virtues: Intellectual virtue theoretical wisdom (thinking anf truth) practical wisdom understanding. Experience and time are necessary requirements for the development of intellectual virtue Moral virtue controlled by practical wisdom (ability to make right judgment) owed its development to how one nurtured it as habit. can be learned10. . Happiness to Aristotle "Happiness depends on ourselves.“ central purpose of human life and a goal in itself. depends on the cultivation of virtue. a genuinely happy life required the fulfillment of a broad range of conditions, including physical as well as mental wellbeing.11. . Happiness as the Ultimate Purpose of Human Existence happiness is a final end or goal that encompasses the totality of one's life. It is not something that can be gained or lost in a few hours, like pleasurable sensations. It is more like the ultimate value of your life as lived up to this moment, measuring how well you have lived up to your full potential as a human being.12. Science and Technology and Good Life S&T is also the movement towards good life. S&T are one of the highest expressions of human faculties. S&T allow us to thrive and flourish if we desire it. S&T may corrupt a person S&T with virtue can helpan individual to be out of danger.13. Why is it that everyone is in the pursuit of the good life?14. . “Life is good! It is only our thoughts, choices and actions towards the situations we meet in life each moment of time that makes life look bad! The same bad situation in life that makes one person think badly inspires another to do a noble thing! The same good situation in life that makes one person feel so good to get into a bad situation inspires another person to create another good situation because of the good situation. It is all about thoughts, choices and actions! Life is good! Live it well!” ― Ernest Agyemang Yeboah15. . One must find the truth about what the good is before one can even try to locate that which is good.we're going to talk about what is thegood life as perceivedby different schools of thoughts okay sowhat we're going to dois to discuss the school of thought thathas beenum created or was established byaristotle and the good life ofversailleswe will go going we're going to talkabout materialismalso about hedonism okay andstoicism okay theism and then humanismin this video for now this is the firstpartwe're going to talk about aristotle andthe good life materialism and hedonismthe next parts will be the stoicismtheism and humanism would be preservedfor the next video or reservedokay so let's start off with our arsenaland the good lifeso aristotle and the good life it isinteresting to note that the firstphilosopherokay who approached problem from therealityokay or problem of reality fromscientific lens is aristotlewho is known for as the first thinkerwho dabbed into the complex problem isthe problematizationof the end goal of life okay so he uhmore so talked about happiness okay soyou can remember in ourprevious videos we talked about hiseudaimonia and then the commandnicomanian ethics okay so that iscreated by nico marcusso as you can see um he is the one whofirst dubbed theor the adapt the complex problemmilitarizationof the end goal of life that ishappiness compared to his predecessorand teacher platoarsenal embarked on different approachesin figuring out realityplato thought that things in this worldare not realand are only copies of the reals in theworlds of forms so that'sfor the perspective of plato whilearistotle puts everything back in theground and claimingthat the world or this world rather isall thereand that this world is the only realitywe can all accessokay so that is the standing point orthethe ground of versatile that is thisworld is allthat there is furthermore aristotleforwarded the idea that there is norealityover and above what the senses canperceive so meaningwe must be all realists okay shall wesayfor aristotle as such it is only byobservationof the external world that one can trulyunderstand what realityis all about again observation of theexternal worldnow also for aristotle change is aprocess that is inheritedin things we along with all otherentities in the worldstart as potentialities and move towardsactualities the movement of courseentailschange so to give you one analogy aboutitso for example look at this plant overhereso it eventually germinates and growsinto a plant so it will start as a seedand then it will germinate and then turninto plant the seed that turnedto become the plant underwent changeokaychange from the potential plant that isthe seed rather the seedto its full actuality okay so that'swhat arizonais talking about so we should start andthen we changeand then we will discover our fullactuality this can be likened toaristotlethe waters that assess that every humanperson aspiresfor an end before an end for an endproduct this end is happinessor human flourishing and we have talkedabout this a lotin details from their previous videosokayand one resists and no one rather no oneresists happinessokay because all we want is to be happyall we want is to be happy so that iswhataristotle and the good life is tellingus okay as far asaristotle um happiness is concerned andhow they how they perceive what a goodlife isokay so that's for aristotle next partiswe're going to talk about materialism sothe first materialists were the atomistsokayin ancient greece they were democratsand leicesters i don't know if ipronounced that correctlythey led a school whose primary beliefis that the world is made upof and is controlled by tiny indivisibleunits ofthe world called atomos or seeds that isthis is also the word where the wordatomcame from actually it's a thomasaccording to the war accordingaccordingly the world including humanbeingsis made up of matter and there is noneed to possess immaterial entitiesas a sources of purpose so for them thatthis is the thingsthat they believe atom simply comestogetherrandomly to form the things in the worldas such only material entitiesmatter okay that's the the mantra formaterialism only material entitiesmatter okay so in terms of humanflourishingfor the materialism point of viewmatter is what makes us makes us attainhappinessso material things we possess give usultimate happiness well for themwe see this at work with most peoplewho are clinging on to material wealthas the primary source of meaningof their existence so like britishexpress instance for thispicture here okay when he buys a lot ofthings when she buys a lot of thingsshe is happy and that's what materialismis all aboutthe material things we possess give usthe ultimate happiness that we'relooking forokay so that's as far as materialismgoes let's go on to our last part inthis videoand that is hedonism okay so what ishedonism umfrom this picture over here okay so forhedoniststhe end goal of life is acquiringpleasureokay so partying drinking and suchpleasure has always been the priorityof headerness for them life is obtainingan indulging in pleasurebecause life is limited they believethat pleasure givemeaning to their life without thinkingof the futurethe mantra for this school of thought isthe famouseat drink and mary for tomorrow we willdieokay so that's it pleasure um beinghappy all the timeokay uh because they say that life islimited so that's for headless point ofviewthe end goal of life is acquiring itacquiring itokay so just like in this picture umdrinking drinking and suchokay so yeah that's it for this videowhat we havefinished here is we have talked about asa as a wrap uparistotle and the good life we've talkedabout that we've talked aboutmaterialismokay to possess the full happiness isabout thematerial things and hedonism umhappiness supreme happinesscame from pleasuresScience, Technology and Society The Good LifeWHAT IS THE ESSENCE OF LIVING A GOOD LIFE ACCORDING TO ARISTOTLE? Eudaimonia is what defines the good life. To live a good life is to live a happy life. For Aristotle Eudaimonia is only possible by living a life of virtue. Arete a Greek term is defined as “an excellence of any kind” and this also means“moral virtue”. A virtue is what makes one function well. Aristotle also identified that there are 2 types of virtue: Intellectual virtue and Moral Virtue.Intellectual Virtue or virtue of thought is achieved through education, time andexperiences. This also includes key intellectual virtues like wisdom, which guides a person’s ethical behavior. Another is understanding which is gained through scientific endeavors and contemplation. Intellectual virtues are acquired through selftaught knowledge and skills, which includes skills learned from formal institutions.Moral Virtue or virtue of character is achieved through habitual practice. Examples of moral virtues are generosity, temperance and courage. Aristotle also explained that although the capacity for virtue is innate, it is brought into completion only by practice. Example will be, it is by repeatedly being unselfish that one develops the virtue of generosity. According to Aristotle both intellectual and moral virtue should be in accordance with reason to achieve Eudaimonia. Indifference with these virtues for reasons that are only for one’s convenience, pleasure and satisfaction leads human away from Eudaimonia. A virtue is ruined by any excess and deficiency in how one lives and acts. Putting everything in perspective, the good life in the sense of Eudaimonia is the state of being happy, healthy and prosperous in the way one thinks, lives and acts.HAPPINESS AS THE GOAL OF A GOOD LIFE In the 18th century, John Stuart Mill declared the Greatest Happiness Principle by saying that an action is right as far as it maximizes the attainment of happiness for the greatest number of people.MATERIALISM Democritus and Leucipus led a school whose primary belief is that the world is made up of and is controlled by the tiny indivisible units in the world called atomos or seeds. For Democritus and his disciples, the world, including human beings, is made of matter. Atomos simply comes together randomly to form the things in the world, as such only material entities matter. In terms of human flourishing, matter is what makes us attain happiness. We see this at work with most people who are clinging on to material wealth as the primary source or meaning of their existence.HEDONISM The hedonist, for their part, see the end goal of life in acquiring pleasure. Pleasure has been the priority of hedonists. For them life is about obtaining and indulging pleasure because life is limited. The mantra of hedonism is “eat, drink and be merry for tomorrow we die.” Led by Epicurus, this thought also does not buy any notion of afterlife just like the materialists.STOICISM Another school of thought led by Epicurus, the stoics espoused the idea that to generate happiness, one must learn to distance oneself and be apathetic. The original term, apatheia, precisely means to be indifferent. For the stoics, happiness can only be attained by a careful practice of apathy. We should, in this worldview, adopt the fact that some things are not within our control. The sooner we realize this, the happier we can become.THEISM Most people find the meaning of their lives using God as a fulcrum of their existence. The Philippines as a predominantly Catholic and Christian country is witness to how people base their life goals on beliefs that hinged on some form of supernatural reality called heaven. The ultimate basis of happiness for theists is the communion with God. The world where we are in is only just a temporary reality where we have to maneuver around while waiting for the ultimate return to the hands of God.HUMANISM Humanism as another school of thought espouses the freedom of man to carve his own destiny and to legislate his own laws, free from the shackles of a God that monitors and controls. For humanists, man is literally the captain of his own ship. Inspired by the enlightenment in seventeenth century, humanists see themselves notmerely as stewards of the creation but as individuals who are in control of themselves andthe world outside them. The motivation of the humanist current, scientists eventually turned to technology in order to ease the difficulty of life. Social as an example has been so far a very effective way of employing technology in purging time and space.SUMMARY: Man is constant and consistently in pursuit of happiness and a good life. Every person has his own perspective on how to live and achieve a good life. The human soul needs to attain a certain balance between the intellectual and moral virtue to have a purposeful meaning of what a good life should be.CHAPTER 7: THE GOOD LIFEOBJECTIVES:1. Identify the principles of Plato and Aristotle in attaining Good life.2. Define Good life3. Discuss Good life is attained by science and technology4. Enumerate the 5 goals of Good lifePLATO – The task of understanding the things in the world runs parallel with the job of truly getting intowhat will make the soul flourish.In an attempt to understand reality of the external world, man must seek to understand himself too.ARISTOTLE – gave a distinction between the theoretical and practical sciences.THEORETICAL DISCIPLINES – Aristotle included LOGIC, BIOLOGY, PHYSICS and METAPHYSICSPRACTICAL DISCIPLINE – Ethics and politics.TRUTH – Is the aim of the theoretical sciences, “GOOD” is the end of the practical ones. Every attempt to know is connected in some way in an attempt to find the good or as said theattainment of human flourishing. We have seen how a misplaced or an erroneous idea of human flourishing can turn tables for allus, make sciences work AGAINST us rather than FOR us, and draw a chasm between the searchfor truth and for the good.ARISTOTLE Approached the Problem of reality from a scientific lensGoal of life: HAPPINESSPLATO – World of forms and World of matter. Plato claims that despite the reality of change, things remain, and they retain their ultimatewhatnessWORLD OF MATTER – things are changing and impermanent.WORLD OF FORMS – entities are only copies of the ideal and the models, and the FORMS are the onlyreal entities.Compared to his teacher (PLATO), Aristotle puts everything back to the ground in claiming that thisworld is all there is to it and that this world is the only reality we can all access. Aristotle disagreed with his teacher’s position and forwarded the idea that there is no realityover and above what the senses and can perceive. Change is a process. Start as potentialities and move toward Actualities. Aristotle extend this analysis from the external world and declares the even HUMAN BEINGS arePOTENTIALITIES who aspire for their ACTUALITIES. Human being moves according to some end. Every action emanates from a person is a function of the purpose (TELOS). We all want to be happy Aristotle claims that happiness is the be all and end all of everything we do. What Aristotle means in happiness is Human Flourishing, a kind of contentment in knowing thatone is getting the best out of life. MAXED OUT HIS POTENTIALSs IN THE WORLD.5 Goals of Good lifeMATERIALISM Material wealth as the primary source of the meaning in life.HEDONISM Obtaining and indulging in pleasure because life is limited.STOICISM Happiness can only be attained by a careful practice of apathy.THEOISM Ultimate basis of happiness is communion and serving God while waiting to return in God.HUMANISM Captain of his own ship, seeking for ways on how to improve the lives. The reason why Technology came across and evolvedWhether or not we agree with these technology advancements, these are all undertaken in the hopes ofattaining the good life.The balance however, between the good life, ethics and technology has to be attained.1. Differentiate one from the othera. moral lifeb. life of pleasurec. fulfilled life2. Make a stand regarding the “good life” by correlating with his/her dreams in life .3. Discuss the role of technology in achieving good lifeAccording to Westacott (2018), there are three ways by which we canunderstand the meaning of good life. These are moral life, life ofpleasure and fulfilled life.A. MORAL LIFE“Good life “ – moral approval . They are good person, courageous,honest, trustworthy, kind, selfless, generous, helpful, loyal, principled andso on.Socrates in Gorgias – argued it is better to suffer wrong than to do it ,that a good man who has his eyes gouged out and is tortured to death ismore fortunate than a corrupt person who has uses wealth and powerdishonorably.Plato  the morally good person enjoys a sort of inner harmony whereasthe wicked person, no matter how rich and powerful he maybe or howmay pleasures he enjoys, is disharmonious, fundamentally at odds withhimself and the world.B. THE LIFE OF PLEASUREGreek philosopher Epicurus  pleasure is enjoyable , its fun ; is what makes lifeworth living .Hedonism. People who are devoted to sex, food, drink and sensual indulgence. Dominant in western culture .Living the good life  enjoying lots of recreational pleasures, good food,good wine, scuba diving, etc. subjective experiences. A person is happy whenthey feel good and have many “ feel good experiences “Epicure – someone who is appreciative of food and drink.C. THE FULFILLED LIFE BY ARISTOTLE1. Virtue  morally virtuous2. Health  enjoy good health and reasonably long life .3. Prosperity – comfortably off (Aristotle  affluent enough so that they don’tneed to work for a living doing something that they would not freely chooseto do)4. Friendship  good friends ; innately social5. Enjoy respect of others6. Need good luck, common sense7. Exercise their unique human abilities and capacitiesSCHOOLS OF THOUGHT PHILOSOPHERS BELIEFMaterialism Leucippus & Democritus Comfort, pleasure and wealth are the only highest goalsHedonism Epicurus Life is limited , one must indulge itself with pleasures  Eatdrink and be merry for tomorrow we dieStoicism Zeno of CitiumMarcus AureliusVirtue is happiness and judgement should be based acts onbehavior rather than words ; practical applicationTheism Ultimate happiness is communion with God ,Find the meaning of their lives by using God as thecreator of their existenceMonotheism & polytheismHumanism International Humanist andEthical UnionHuman beings have the right and responsibility to givemeaning and shape their own livesstewards of creation but as individuals who have controlfor themselves as well as the world outside themMeaningful Life1. Well being of Family especially children and grandchildren2. Pursuing a particular kind of work with great dedication (scientific research, artistic creation,scholarship)3. Devote themselves to a cause – protecting environment4. Immersion or engagement in a community, church and schoolFinished lifeCall no man happy until he’s long dead because after death that is the only time that you willknow how he live. Example: Jimmy Saville who was much admired but a serial sexualpredator. A good life is one that is enviable and admirable . GOOD MORAL LEAD US TOTHE GOOD AND HAPPY LIFETHE ULTIMATE GOAL OF A GOOD LIFETRUE HAPPINESS IS FOUND BY LEADING A VIRTUOUS LIFEAND DOING WHAT IS WORTH DOING.FEELING GOOD IS NOT GOOD ENOUGH FOR A GOOD LIFE.Each person must realize his/her potentialities which would lead him/her tothe greatest fulfillment.The Good Life Aristotle Ancient Greek Philosopher known for his natural philosophy. logic and political theoryMore on Aristotleone of the greatest thinkers in the history of western science and philosophy, making contributions to logic, metaphysics, mathematics, physics, biology, botany, ethics, politics, agriculture, medicine, dance, and theatre.first to classify areas of human knowledge into distinct disciplines such as mathematics, biology, and ethics.founder of the Lyceum, the first scientific institute, based in Athens, Greece.One of the strongest advocates of a liberal arts education, which stresses the education of the whole person, including one’s moral character, rather than merely learning a set of skills.He was a student of Plato, who was then a student ofSocrates. Together, they were considered the 'Big Three of Greek Philosophy.He was the founder offormal logic, devising for it a finished system that for centuries was regarded as the sum of the discipline; and he pioneered the study of zoology, both observational and theoretical, in which some of his work remained unsurpassed until the 19th century.He was aGREEKphilosopher who pioneered systematic, scientific examination in literally every area of human knowledge and was known, in his time, as "the man who knew everything" and later simply as "The Philosopher”, needing no further qualification as his fame was so widespread.Nicomachean EthicsAll human activities aim at some good. Every art and human inquiry, and similarly every action and pursuit, is thought to aim at some good; and for this reason the good has been rightly declared as that at which all thingsaim.What we need, in order to live well, is a proper appreciation of the way in which such goods as friendship, pleasure, virtue, honor and wealth fit together as a whole. In order to apply that general understanding to particular cases, we must acquire, through proper upbringing and habits, the ability to see, on each occasion, which course of action is best supported by reasons.What is meant by a good life?Living in comfort and luxury with few problems or worries.Characterized by happiness from living and doing wellContentEveryone has a definition of whatgood isgetting a college degree, traveling across the world, succeeding in a business venture, pursuing a healthy and active lifestyle, or being a responsible parent.one in which a person cultivatesand exercises their rational facultiesby, for instance, engaging in scientific inquiry, philosophical discussion, artistic creation, or legislation.What is eudaimonia?Came from the greek word eu meaning “good” and daimon meaning “spirit”Refers to the good life marked by happiness and excellence.Flourishing life filled with meaningful endeavors that empower the human person to be the best version of himself/herself.The good for human life‘happiness’‘living well and faring well’:flourishingEudaimonia is not a state of mind,but relates to the activity of livingIt is not easily changed,but relates to a life as a wholeEudaimonia transcends all aspects of life for it is about living well and doing well in whatever one doesAristotle’s View of Good LifeThe activity of the soul in accordance with virtueAccording to Aristotle, happiness is the only end or good that we desire for its own sake, and it is for the sake of happiness that we desire all other ends or goods. Happiness is the meaning and purpose of life, the whole aim and end of human existence.Since the function of all human beings to live a certain sort of lifeand this life is an activity or action of the soul (mind and spirit, here) implying a rational principlethen the function of good human beings is to make use of their mind and spirit. Thus good life or happiness is the activity of the soul in accordance with virtue.Believed that good humans is the maximum realization of what was unique to humansThe good for humans was to reason wellThe task of reason was to teach humans how to act, virtuously, and the exercise faculties in accordance with virtue.There are several ways in which Aristotle approaches the question of what happinessconsists in. First, he notes that flourishing for plants and animals consists in their functioning well according to their natures. So one question we should ask is this: What is the proper or peculiar function of a human being? Aristotle thinks it obvious that our proper function consists in reasoning and in acting in accord with reason. Meaning we have moral and intellectual. So on this line of reasoning we are led to the conclusion that the possession and exercise of moral and intellectual virtue is anessential element in living well well.VirtuesBehavior showing high moral standards“Paragons of virtue”Synonyms: goodness, pureness, principles, ethicspatience, courage and perseverance.. Patience is the ability to endure difficult circumstances. Courage is the choice and willingness to confront uncertainty.persistence in doing something despite difficulty or delay in achieving successNicomachean EthicsVirtue, then, being of two kinds,intellectual and moral, intellectual virtue in the main owes its birth and growth in teaching(for its reason it requires experience and time). While moral virtue comes about as a result of habit.virtue can be learned only through constant practiceimplies that there are no set rules we can learn and then obey.We are all born with the potential to be morally virtuous, but it is only by behaving in the right way that we train ourselves to bevirtuous. Kung baga natuto tayong maging mabait kapag gumagawa tayo ng mabuting bagay. The VirtuesIntellectual VirtueTheoretical wisdom (thinking and truth)Practical wisdom Understanding. Experience and time are necessary requirements for the development of intellectual virtueMoral VirtueControlled by practical wisdom (ability to make right judgement)Owed its development to how one nurtured it as habitCan be learnedHappiness to AristotleHappiness depends on ourselves.Central purpose of human life and a goal in itself.Depends on the cultivation of virtueA genuinely happy life required the fulfillment of a broad range of conditions, including physical as well as mental wellbeing.Happiness as the Ultimate Purpose of Human ExistenceHappiness is a final end or goal that encompasses the totality of one’s lifeIt is not something that can be gained or lost in a few hours, like pleasurable sensations.It is more like the ultimate value of your life as lived up to this moment, measuring how well you have lived up to your full potential as a human being.Science and Technology and Good Lifeutilization of that knowledge to boost the prosperity of human lives, and to solve the various issues facing society.S&T is also the movement towards a good life.S&T are one of the highest expressions of human facilities. S&T allows us to thrive and flourish if we desire it.S&T may corrupt a person especially by doing dishonest or illegal things in return for money or power.S&T with virtue can help an individual to be out of danger. Science, Technology & SocietyWeek 8Page 1 of 6Are we living the good life? This question is inarguably one universal human concern. Everyone aims tolead a good life. Yet, what constitutes a happy and contented life varies from person to person. Uniquebackgrounds, experiences, social contexts, and even preferences make it difficult to subscribe to a unifiedstandard on which to tease out the meaning of 'the good life.' Thus, the prospect of a standard of the goodlifeone that resonates across unique human experiencesis inviting.In this module, you will be able to:Examine shared concerns that make up the good life in order to come up with innovative,creative solutions to contemporary issues guided by ethical standards deficiencies."Are we living the good life?" necessary reflection must be made on twothings: first what standard could be used to define 'the good life?' Second, how can the standard serve as aguide toward living the good life in the midst of scientific progress and technological advancement? In thedocumentary film, The Magician Twin: C. S. Lewis and the Case Against Scientism, C. S. Lewis positedthat "science must be guided by some ethical basis that is not dictated by science itself." One such ethicalbasis is Aristotle's Nichomachean Ethics. Aristotle, who lived from 384 to 322 BC, is probably the mostimportant ancient Greek philosopher and scientist. He was a student of Plato, who was then a student ofSocrates. Together, they were considered the 'Big Three of Greek Philosophy.' Aristotle's Nichomachean Ethics, the fundamental basis of Aristotelian ethics, consists of ten books.Originally, they were lecture notes written on scrolls when he taught at the Lyceum. It is widely believedthat the lecture notes were compiled by or were dedicated to one of Aristotle's sons, Nichomacus.Alternatively, it is believed that the work was dedicated to Aristotle's father who was of the same name. The Nichomachean Ethics, abbreviated as NE or sometimes EN based on the Latin version of thename, is a treatise on the nature of moral life and human happiness based on the unique essence ofhuman nature. The NE particularly useful in defining what the good life is. Everyone has a definition of whatgood isgetting a college degree, traveling across the world, succeeding in a business venture, pursuing ahealthy and active lifestyle, or being a responsible parent. However, although everyone aims to achievethat which is good, Aristotle posited two types of good. In NE Book 2 Chapter 2, (NE 2:2), Aristotleexplained that every action aims at some good. However, some actions aim at an instrumental good whilesome aim at an intrinsic good. He made it clear that the ultimate good is better than the instrumental goodfor the latter is good as a means to achieving something else or some other end while the former is good initself.Eudaimonia: The Ultimate Good What then is the ultimate good? Based on the contrast between two types of good, one could reflecton some potential candidates for the ultimate good. One might think that pleasure is the ultimate good. Oneaims for pleasure in the food they eat or in the experiences they immerse themselves into. Yet, whilepleasure is an important human need, it can’t be the ultimate good. First it is transitoryit passes. One mayhave been pleased with the food they had for lunch, but he or she will be hungry again or will wantsomething else after a while. Second, pleasure does not encompass all aspects of life. One may beGEC 1 Science, Technology & SocietyWeek 8Page 3 of 6pleased with an opportunity to travel but that may not make him or her feel good about leaving, say, his orher studies or the relationship he or she has been struggling with. Others might think that wealth is a potential candidate for the ultimate good, but a critique of wealthwould prove otherwise. Indeed many, if not most, aim to be financially stable, to be rich, or to be able toafford a luxurious life. However, it is very common to hear people say that they aim to be wealthy insofar asit would help them achieve some other goals. Elsewhere, it is also common to hear stories about peoplewho have become very wealthy but remain, by and large, unhappy with the lives they lead. In this sense,wealth is just an intermediate goodthat is, only instrumental. It is not the ultimate good because it is notselfsufficient and does not stop one from aiming for some other 'greater' good. Another candidate for the ultimate good is fame and honor. Many people today seem to bemotivated by a desire to be knownto be famous. Others strive for honor and recognition. This is reflectedby those people who use social media to acquire large virtual following on the internet and wish to gain afoothold on the benefits that fame brings. Many people act according to how they think they will be admiredand appreciated by other people. However, these cannot constitute the ultimate good, simply because theyare based on the perception of others. Fame and honor can never be good in themselves. If one's definitionof the good life is being popular or respected, then the good life becomes elusive since it is based on thesubjective views of others. Unlike pleasure, wealth, fame, and honor, happiness is the ultimate good. In the Aristotelian sense,happiness is "living well and doing well" (NE 1:4). Among the Greeks, this is known as Eudaimonia, fromthe root words eu, meaning good, and daimon, meaning spirit. Combining the root words, Eudaimoniameans happiness or welfare. More accurately, others translate it as human flourishing or prosperity.Aristotle proposed two hallmarks of Eudaimonia, namely virtue and excellence (NE 1:7). Thus, happiness inthe sense of Eudaimonia has to be distinguished from merely living good. Eudaimonia transcends allaspects of life for it is about living well and doing well in whatever one does. Eudaimonia: Uniquely Human? Eudaimonia or happiness is unique to humans for it is a uniquely human function. It is achieved onlythrough a rationally directed life. Aristotle's notion of a tripartite soul as summarized in Figure 1. Thedegrees and functions of the soul are nested, such that the one which has a higher degree of soul has all ofthe lower degrees. Thus, on the nutritive degree, all living things, i.e., plants, animals, and humans, requirenourishment and have the ability to reproduce. On the sensitive degree, only animals and humans have theability to move and perceive. Finally, on the rational degree, only humans are capable of theoretical andpractical functions. Following this, humans possess the nutritive, sensitive, and rational degrees of the soul.More importantly, only humans are capable of a life guided by reason. Because this is so, happiness, too,is a uniquely human function for it can only be achieved through a rationally directed life.AbstractThis article proposes an ethical framework to navigate life in the datafied world that combines the relational ethics approach of the philosopher Paul Ricoeur with the idiom of coproduction from the field of Science and Technology Studies (STS). Mainstream data and computing ethics approaches, which tend to view ethics itself as a technology to produce particular outcomes, fail to adequately consider the context of the datafied world for ethics. The datafied world is a condition in which data and computing technologies form the ineluctable infrastructure for daily life, structuring social order, forming power relations, and supporting visions of desirable futures. I argue that the datafied world is not just a background upon which ethics unfolds, rather it demands a novel framework for ethics that understands the contexts of data and computing technologies and their consequences for human action. The idiom of coproduction suggests how action gets tied to visions of the good in the datafied world. In particular, it draws attention to the evolution of these actions in the identities, institutions, representations, and discourses of the social world, creating specific forms of life and meaning in datafied societies.KeywordsCoproduction, data ethics, relational ethics, narrative identity, Paul Ricoeur, datafied worldDepartment of Humanities, Social and Political Sciences, ETH Zürich, Zürich, SwitzerlandCorresponding author(s):Margarita BoenigLiptsin, Department of Humanities, Social and Political Sciences, ETH Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland. Email: mboenig@ethz.chIn an ethical momentIn the fall of 2019, University of California (UC) Berkeley students joined a protest against the University's association with the company Palantir. Palantir contracted with the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Agency to supply a technology that agents used under the Trump administration to perform raids and detain undocumented immigrants. Among the protesters’ demands was that the University administration disallow Palantir from participating in the Corporate Access Program (CAP) of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. The CAP program allows companies to pay a fee to be able to recruit UC Berkeley students. Here was a public technology scandal: a powerful technology corporation, supporting controversial practices of a national institution, being challenged by students of a public university on grounds of concern about commitment to social justice.Capturing UC Berkeley in the crosshairs, Jimmy Wu, a San Francisco based activist and writer on technology and culture, tweeted a statement from a student protester: “Every Data Science major must take an ethics course to graduate. UC Berkeley should take a page out of its own curriculum” (Wu, 2019). The tweet hit home. The referenced “ethics course” was none other than the one that I had cotaught. With my course in the spotlight, my coinstructor and I faced the question of what role we and the course should play in the crisis. What exactly should an education on the ethics of data and computing provide to its students? How can instructors offer a path—the vocabulary, ways of thinking, and examples—by which students could evaluate a situation of ethical consequence, develop an opinion, and act?In this article, I propose an ethical framework intended to support students of all ages to navigate life in the datafied world. The datafied world is a condition in which data and computing technologies form the ineluctable infrastructure for daily life, where they structure social order, form power relations, and support visions of desirable futures. This condition of life is not just a background upon which ethics unfolds, rather it demands a framework for ethics that considers human action in the datafied context.To bridge an understanding of ethics with the context of the datafied world, I combine the ethical thought of Paul Ricoeur with Sheila Jasanoff's (2004) idiom of coproduction in Science and Technology Studies (STS). I build upon the work of scholars in the philosophy of technology who, heeding Hans Jonas’ call to identify an “ethics for the technological age” (Jonas, 1984), investigate the relationship between human and technical action and its significance for how people ought to live enmeshed within sociotechnical systems (Coeckelbergh, 2020; Ess, 2014; Michelfelder, 2009; Vallor, 2016; Verbeek, 2005). Specifically, my project takes up recent work in ethics and political theory by Jarrett Zigon (2019) and Louise Amoore (2020) who consider the conditions for an interpersonal approach to ethics in the datafied world. My framework attempts to support people to make sense of what is at stake, ethically, in the situations they find themselves in, to engage with others in their community in dialogue, and take steps towards constituting forms of life that support collective flourishing.The trouble with ethicsMany data and computing ethics initiatives exist today (Jobin et al., 2019). For example, a community of data scientists led by Data for Democracy, Bloomberg, and BrightHive have drafted an ethics code for data practitioners; Google has published a set of “AI Principles” for its employees; Omidyar has created the “Ethical Operating System (OS)” for technology companies to use to anticipate the social consequences of their products; and the UK government has instituted a “Data Ethics Framework” to govern data use in government and the public sector. Meanwhile, in academia, new approaches to research and teaching data ethics are in development, such as Santa Clara University's shareable data ethics modules, the Harvard SEAS “Embedded Ethics” project and hundreds of “technology ethics” classes in universities around the world. The need for these initiatives is confirmed by neardaily revelations of data breaches and privacy violations in societies grappling with how to regulate data practices and technologies. And yet, life in the datafied world demands something more than what these initiatives provide: it demands that ethics shed light on its own tangled relationship to technology. Before proposing a framework, I outline a problem with mainstream approaches to data and computing ethics.One characteristic of mainstream approaches to data and computing ethics is their reformulation of ethics as a kind of technology. Ethical interventions are designed as correctives for human failure (whether accidental or deliberate). Ethics is conceived as a set of processes to arrive at desirable outcomes—such as the provisions of “privacy,” “fairness,” or “security”—in spite of human factors. In data and computing ethics, as in earlier applied ethics traditions like bioethics (Evans, 2006) and engineering ethics (Fleddermann, 2012), ethics is considered to be a body of technical knowledge whose theories can be learned and applied to technical problems, just like a physicist might learn and apply physical theories to engineer a functional technical system. This understanding of ethics as a technical body of knowledge to avert enumerated failure modes motivates the development of ethical “codes,” “operating systems,” or technological artifacts like machine learning bots trained to detect and eliminate human error or malice. Similarly to bioethics (Hilgartner, 2018), instead of supporting the capacity of people to critically analyze the content and authority of data and computing, many data ethics initiatives focus on treating the social consequences of these technologies.In the ethicsastechnology paradigm, agency and responsibility for sociotechnical systems falls on human actors (Elish, 2019), and in particular on individual engineers or datapractitioners. This ignores the complex configuration of human and technical agency that is the case in all sociotechnical systems, but especially so in the datafied world. For example, Palantir's cooperation with ICE is concerning not just because people disagree with the activity of ICE as an institution, but because Palantir’s technology changes ICE’s practices (Woodman, 2017). Palantir’s tools make it possible for ICE agents to pool an unprecedented amount of data from disparate sources and identify which individuals to target through associations that the individuals have to collectives, a networked approach that is rife with discrimination and misidentification (Eubanks, 2018). This illustrates one way in which the technology informs an institution’s ability to exercise its power, in a way that has direct bearing on what counts as ethical action for the agent, for the technology company, and for the current or prospective workers of the organization. While philosophers have drawn attention to the ways in which technology configures human agency with consequences for ethics (see, for example, Coeckelbergh and Reijers, 2016; Jonas, 1984; Vallor, 2016), this thinking is not taken up in most data and computing ethics initiatives.The second problem is that, by assigning the responsibility for ethics to the datapractitioner, engineer, or technology corporation leader, data and computing ethics initiatives foreclose the possibility of society’s deliberation on the place and role of the technologies in their midst. The ethicsastechnology remedy is focused on avoiding negative consequences or preventing harm (Jobin et al., 2019) instead of opening up questions about the meaning of the good that societies aim at with technical projects. For example, the “Ethical Operating System (OS),” a system of codes and stepbystep interventions developed by Omidyar’s Technology and Society Solutions Lab, invites technologists to think proactively about the “dark side” of the technologies they create in order to prevent bad scenarios from becoming realities (Omidyar Network, 2018). Avoiding harm with technology is thus implicitly presented as the same pursuit as doing good. Yet there is an important, and mostly ignored, difference between the two. The strategy to minimize harm is prioritized over debating the merits of the good: including what the good means, for whom, and how to pursue it. For instance, in Mark Zuckerberg's testimony in the US Congress about Facebook's role in the Cambridge Analytica scandal, there was no discussion of the meaning of the company's allegedly “good” mission to connect the world. Instead of asking what is the vision of the good that the Facebook platform aims at, whose vision of the good it is and for whom it is created, the focus of data ethics debate is on whether the company may have strayed in pursuit of its mission in ways that have caused harm to individuals or society (Zuckerberg, 2018).But how do you know that you are maximizing the good by minimizing harm when you do not define what the good is? Mainstream approaches address this by using a few key values as proxies for the good. For example, Mike Loukides, Hilary Mason, and DJ Patil's ethical checklist for datapractitioners can be broken down into concerns about four key values: privacy, fairness, transparency, and security (Loukides et al., 2018). This already narrow set of values acquire even narrower scope by being defined in ways that are inseparable from the statistical and computational solutions that are developed to address them. Thus, “privacy” becomes nonconsensual exposure of data that can be remedied through differential privacy; “fairness” is seen as the opposite of statistical bias, and corporatemade tools exist to “debias” algorithms of any slant; “transparency” is understood as practices of documentation and reproducibility that technologists can make sense of, without consideration for public oversight and how it can be enacted; and “security” is defined in terms of the impermeability of technical systems, not human users. This way of defining values removes them from the realm of human relationships, where they have ethical import, to the realm of ethicsastechnology. Data and computing ethics become preoccupied with preserving these goods rather than supporting public deliberation on questions about their very significance in the datafied world, such as: for whom and against whom does privacy and security matter in a datafied world where surveillance capitalism is the dominant political economy (Dwork and Mulligan, 2013; Zuboff, 2019)? How do we assure that algorithms produce not just unbiased outcomes within the same unjust institutions but actively acknowledge structural injustice and support society's evolution to justice? To whom should the sociotechnical system be made transparent in order that these systems gain public trust?In light of these problems with mainstream data and computing ethics, we need a framework of ethics that confronts how computing and data science are constitutive of conceptions of the good and the means for pursuing it. We need a framework that considers the connections between an individual idea of good, the limited, situated, and contextbound opportunities for agency of the individual, with collectively held ideas of the good, and institutional forces—all in the context of their dynamic relationship with technologies.Paul Ricoeur's understanding of the human as always in formation through the process of action and accounting for one's actions is a starting point of a contrasting approach to ethics. It supports a definition of ethics that is focused on situated human relationships, instead of on “goods” such as “privacy,” “fairness,” or “security.” Any attempt to examine ethics in human relationships today requires considering the constitutive role of science and technology. The STS idiom of “coproduction” says that how people know the world and the technologies they choose to build the world are inseparable from how they choose to live in it (Jasanoff, 2004). When we order knowledge, or design technological tools for making or deploying this knowledge, we are also engaged in the normative and political project of ordering society. If we recognize coproduction of technology and society to be at work in the datafied world, then it does not make sense to separate human agents and actions from technological agents and actions. If we accept that all individuals, not just technological agents, have an ethical position and an opportunity for ethical formation on issues that comprise the datafied world, then we need models that offer insight into the relationship among individuals and technologies. Within the tradition of philosophers working on the question of configuration of human and technical agency and its significance for ethics, I highlight the work of Jarret Zigon and Louise Amoore because of their attention to conditions of life in the datafied world and interpersonal dynamics of ethics. Relational ethics defines the human to be a relational being and ethics as profoundly shaped by and enacted in relationships among people. A relational ethics approach for data and computing invites analysis of how these technologies mediate and reconfigure the relationship between the self and other. Recent scholarship on relational ethics and data and computing takes its point of departure from the African philosophical tradition, and in particular of ubuntu (Birhane, 2021; Mhlambi, 2020; Wodajo and Ebert, 2021). In this article, I show how relational ethics is also part of some Western philosophy and moral anthropology. The philosophies of Paul Ricoeur, Emmanuel Levinas, Judith Butler, and Adriana Cavarero direct attention to the relationship between self and other, explaining how essential the “other” is to the possibility and formation of the self (Butler, 2003; Cavarero, 2000; Levinas, 1998; Ricoeur, 1992), and how this relationship calls upon the self to respond or “attune” when encountering another (Butler, 2003; Zigon, 2019). In contrast to ethical questions framed in terms of the good (“What is the good?”) or the right (“Did she act rightly?”), the main ethical question of “relational ethics” is “How is it between us?” (Zigon, 2019) With this question, relational ethics draws attention to the space between the “I,” or the self, and the “Other.” Zigon's approach helpfully focuses attention on the specific role that algorithms play in shaping the encounter with other human beings.Political geographer Louise Amoore attends to the ways in which algorithms “ new patterns of good and bad, new thresholds of normality and abnormality, against which actions are calibrated” (Amoore, 2020). Her concept of “cloud ethics” is shaped by this decidedly coproductionist account of algorithms and human life. Like Zigon's relational ethics, “cloud ethics” is anchored in human relationships among others and in the need to account for oneself and one's actions as an inescapable condition of being human. Ethics, writes Amoore, is “the inescapably political formation of the relation of oneself to oneself and to others” (Amoore, 2020: 7). This understanding of ethics as about human relationships rather than a set of principles or rules, changes the way in which we see what is ethical about algorithmic models. “Cloud ethics” draws attention to how algorithms generate “detailed, active, partial way of organizing worlds” (Amoore, 2020: 20). Algorithms insert themselves into the ethicopolitical playing field of human accounts and sensemaking under conditions of uncertainty and undecidability, the same conditions that algorithms are deployed to resolve.Aiming at the good lifeIn this article, I share a working definition of ethics that combines Paul Ricoeur's concept of the “ethical aim” with coproduction. I propose to engage more, not less, with ethics: to think more expansively about what ethics is and what relationship it has to technology. Frustrated with the inability of conversations about ethics to get at crucial issues of power and inequalities, a number of analysts and activists in the area of data, computing, and society have moved away from discussing ethics to focus on politics, power, and economy (Crawford, 2021; Pratyusha, 2020; Zuboff, 2019). While I agree with the need to center power and inequality to understand the world and how it is made, I think the problem is not ethics as such, but impoverished applications of ethics to data and computing. When students ask about what they should do and who they should be in relation to how they see data and computing shaping the world, they are asking about ethics, in addition to politics. Instead of ignoring the more intimate ethical aspect of the question, we need to be more aware of the place of ethics in relation to self, community, and technology in order to create from ethics a more powerful tool for making sense of, scrutinizing, and shaping data and computing in the world.Paul Ricoeur (1913–2005) was a French philosopher who proposed a way of thinking about ethics that was bound with the formation of a person's identity. Ethics is not a code imposed upon the person from outside; rather, it is constitutive of the process of selfformation that is social and relational through and through. Human actions visàvis one another—the same actions that create relations of domination, violence, or community—become the building blocks of identity and constitute one's ethical being. Due to his understanding of ethics as a process of selfformation in community, Ricoeur spoke not of “ethics” as such, abstracted from the person and process, but of the “ethical aim,” which he defined as “aiming at the ‘good life’ with and for others, in just institutions” (Ricoeur, 1992: 172). Before we unpack this definition, it is critical to understand how Ricoeur saw the formation of ethics, via identity, interaction, and narration.Identity for Ricoeur is enacted in front of other people and formed in the process of interaction and narration. Narratives, whether the narratives we hear and read, or the narratives that we create by recounting our actions, play a crucial role in the formation of our identities because we are temporal beings, living in time. The development of identity happens through configuration by narrative, as it is essential for humans to internalize their experiences and actions while also accounting for actions in front of others.Ricoeur's theory of narrative has been extended by philosophers of technology David Kaplan, Mark Coeckelberg, and Wessel Reijers to analyze the human relationship with technology. Kaplan proposed that Ricoeur's view of narrative mediation of individual and collective life can help philosophers of technology to deepen the understanding of “the different ways that technologies figure into our lives” (Kaplan, 2006: 50). Coeckelbergh and Reijers (2016) follow this suggestion with an analysis of the ways in which technologies can “configure,” using Ricoeur's term, characters and events similarly to the way that narratives do. They argue that all technologies are “narrative technologies”: they participate in “coauthoring” narratives with human beings that organize human relations in time and become scripts (Akrich, 1992; Latour, 1992) according to which people live.Coeckelberg and Reijers take up Ricoeur's theory of narrativity because they rightly believe that it can help to account for the linguistic and social dynamics of technology. Having shown how “technologies coshape meaning and human action,” they conclude that it is possible to “deploy the theory of narrative technologies as an ethical theory of technology” (Coeckelbergh and Reijers, 2016: 344). Their framework foregrounds how technologies configure human actions through the technology's narrative dimensions, opening up another axis according to which technology can be evaluated. I pick up this invitation to think with Ricoeur about the ethics of technology, not, however, from the starting point of narrative technology, but the narrative identity of the human and its ethical import. As we will see, when the starting place of analysis is the narrative subject, ethics turns from evaluation of technology to dynamic process of ethical action in technological contexts.Ricoeur distinguishes two components of identity, idem and ipse. Idem identity is that part of us which we believe to be constant about who we are. Ipse identity is the part of us that changes with time through our life. These two aspects of identity, what stays the same and what changes, are constantly balancing one another and evolving as people act in the world and narrate those actions to themselves and others. Actions, and the narratives about them, are integral to both idem and ipse identity formation because actions, while each having ends in themselves (i.e. the specific thing that the action is meant to achieve), are directed at an “ethical aim;” that is, actions aspire towards the “good life with and for others in just institutions” (Ricoeur, 1992: 172). Actions are not just instrumental or purposive; they are also ethical (in the sense that they aim at the good life), and they both shape outcomes and form our identity as the basis for future actions and narratives.Notice how this theory of identity formation, as a basis for a theory of ethics, is distinct from the ethicsastechnology approach. With ethicsastechnology, the person is a rational actor wielding ethics as a purposive tool. Rational action, in this view, reflects economic theory and means action which takes the most effective means to achieve a predetermined end. In contrast, Ricoeur's definition invites us to view ethics as a process of selfknowledge that individuals, situated in their identities and narrative formation, undertake. This process is social (practiced with and through others), and is influenced by institutional realities at the same time as it shapes those realities.Let's take a closer look at the three components of Ricoeur's definition of the ethical aim of action—“aim at the good life,” “with and for others,” “in just institutions”—and consider what happens to each in the datafied world.Ricoeur defines “the good life” as “for each of us, the nebulus of ideals and dreams of achievements with regard to which a life is held to be more or less fulfilled or unfulfilled” (Ricoeur, 1992: 179). It is the “good life” as we individually understand it from the perspective of our own intime identity, but which can change through the process of pursuing it. We “aim” our actions at this vision of the good life. By characterizing ethics as an “aim” rather than as a predefined principle, imperative, or norm, Ricoeur suggests that ethical action is an active pursuit rooted in what is lacking and what we wish for and aspire to. This is fundamentally different from ethicsastechnology where the human is reduced to an operator who must conform to a set of rules, leaving no space for the individual's aims and aspirations to unfold. In contrast, ethics as an “aim” orients our actions and allows the development of our identities, which Ricoeur thought to be experienced as always incomplete selfawareness and always in formation. As such, ethics is rooted in the process of living, in desire for an ideal that emanates from the self at the same time as that ideal becomes a measure for the self.The second part of the definition moves from the individual's sense of the good life to the realm of interpersonal relationships. “With and for others” refers to friends and people one meets facetoface during the course of one's life: the proximate others whose attitudes, actions, and perspectives both inform our sense of self and the good while also being the necessary playing field (and set of constraints) in which our ethical aims unfold and evolve. “With” others, because it is by pursuing the good in communities, by giving an account of our actions to others, that we make sense of what is “good” and how we are doing in aspiring to it. “For” others, because our actions necessarily inform the good for, or on behalf of, those proximate others and cannot achieve their aim without engaging with them. This part of the definition recognizes ethics as interpersonal and recognizes action as responsible not only to oneself but also to those in our communities, similarly to approaches from feminist ethics (especially ethics of care) (Gilligan, 1982; Walker, 2007). The interpersonal dimension of ethics and technology's significance for informing it are proclaimed in classic works of philosophy of technology (Jonas, 1984; Verbeek, 2005; Van Den Eede, 2010) and in recent scholarship focused on algorithms and ethics, such as Zigon's “relational ethics” and Amoore's “cloud ethics.”The interpersonal dimension of ethics is developed further by the third part of Ricoeur's definition: we pursue the ethical aim “in just institutions,” that is, in the wider realm of society and politics that guarantee the very ability to act ethically. The social institutions we create and participate in should share in our sense of the good life, should help us to achieve the good life, and serve as the collective expressions of the good. They are essential to live a good life because we cannot pursue this life without acting together with others in structured ways that are encoded in institutions. Freedom for Ricoeur is that ability to move through the thought of ethics (a temporal, narrative process), confront morality (principles that are perceived as obligations) and to balance between these two with conviction, or something of one's idem identity that persists and makes us return to the same belief about who we are. The process of action starts with the self, passes to the universal (via the interpersonal and institutional), and returns to the self again in conviction, to inform individual action. The ability to pass through this process is what just institutions are meant to protect (Ricoeur, 2000). This understanding of institutions acknowledges that they are not only functional in objectoriented ways, such as securing the distribution of resources; they are also essential to selfformation and to the pursuit of the ethical aim.Ricoeur's perspective on ethics begins to address problems of data ethics as “ethicsastechnology.” First, it provides a framework for thinking about human action and its relationship to ethics. If ethics is always related to the self, then ethics does not only concern discrete decisions in work with technology, but rather a broader question of pursuit of a good life that transpires through human relationships, both proximate and distant. While ethics is at stake in discrete decision points of working with data (BoenigLiptsin et al., 2022), the actions at each point are framed, shaped, and formed by a larger level of life plans and experiences (including, for example, choice of profession) and of our own selfevaluation following the act of interpreting our actions and accounting for them in narratives in front of, and with, others. The focus on life aims and narratives links individual ideas of the good with those of the collective and avoids the assumption that good individual actions add up to collective good and that ethics can be a code to direct actions.Second, in a definition of ethics grounded in an interpersonal formation of the self we also come to recognize the dynamic concept of the good. The concept of the good life that one aims for is influenced by the means one uses to pursue it. Furthermore, the concept of the good life evolves over time, through changing selfunderstanding and relationships (sometimes struggles) among oneself, friendships, and structures of social institutions. This definition of ethics acknowledges that our understanding of the meaning of a good life is everevolving, because we perpetually recast ourselves and our relationships via narratives that attempt to make sense of the dynamic integration between human and technical agency that comprises the datafied world. Whereas ethicsastechnology restricts the focus of ethics to discrete decision points, technological actors, and more narrowly defined outcomes, Ricoeur's framework offers an alternative. It exposes how each of us as individuals (in our whole and evolving identity) has a stake in the problems, choices, and social and institutional relationships through which technologies are designed, used, and controlled to shape our lives.A framework for ethics that begins with an evolving and socially constructed self and that acknowledges a dynamic conception of the good life is consistent with recent work on ethics. Judith Butler's perspective of human action, responsibility, and formation of the self similarly stresses the central place of accounting for one's actions through narrative as constitutive of both the self and ethics (Butler, 2003). Butler describes how the subject fears the inability to narrate herself or to give a complete account of herself. This fear, however, is necessary since it confronts us with the limits of our knowledge and lack of transparency of ourselves to ourselves. Butler sees the ability to forgive ourselves for this lack of transparency to be the precondition for being ethical and taking responsibility for our actions. While, for Butler, the narrative dimension of ethics is what allows the person to humbly come to terms with their own irreducible unknowability, for moral anthropologist Webb Keane the narrative dimension of ethics presents yet another opportunity. Keane describes the importance to ethics of the “thirdperson stance” that allows people to give an account (to themselves and others) of their actions (Keane, 2015). To evaluate one's actions from a distance of the thirdperson is a way to reform the self through the account and draw upon the common resources of one's culture and society's shared reference points that support a socially embedded and dynamic conception of the good life.Ricoeur's concept of the ethical aim points to salient aspects of the debate among UC Berkeley students about Palantir and begins to help people consider their relationships to, and positions on, the issues and identify possible actions. With Ricoeur's definition of ethics, students see that ethics starts with understanding the human contexts, that is, identity of self in relation to others in a datafied world. Students learn to listen to the narratives of all stakeholders to understand how those form concepts of the good life and of everyone's selfdefined identities and roles in moving toward that life. In considering the Palantir case, students assess the place from where their action would begin: their sense of self and expertise as computing and data professionals in training, the state of life that they might envision their profession to bring them, their relationship to immigration or to the Federal government, etc. Ricoeur's definition immediately draws attention to the “who,” or the specific identity and positionality of the person acting in the multiple and dynamic identities and supports examining the variety of ethical stances towards an issue from these multiple perspectives. The approach encourages not only the analysis of each position singularly, but the way in which they bear upon one another, mediating the vision of the good life of each and of the collective as a whole, as well as the institution that the collective constitutes. Engaging in this process of narrating and listening leads students to expose, in the protected and social space of the university, the differing aims and concepts of the good.Unlike ethics codes and operating systems that treat ethics as a set of guidelines for operators to follow to avert catastrophe or criticism, Ricoeur offers a path that reflects on individual and social identity, on the meaning of the good life, and that undergoes reconciliation across perspectives in the social sphere. It is not just a set of rules developed by “experts” for “the few” technologists, but, rather, it results in a broader internalization and reflection of the ways technology forms the plurality of identities of people living in the datafied world, inserts itself into our relationships, and is formed by and for the community. In opening up the variety of these questions about the Palantir case, this definition of ethics does not—it cannot—serve as a technology that instructs in a preset course of action. Instead, it supports practical ethical work: work of selfknowledge and formation in communities and within specific contexts of the datafied world.Relational ethics in the datafied worldWe said about Ricoeur's definition of ethics that it sets us on a different track by treating ethics as the pursuit of the good life, with others, in just institutions. Although this definition understands ethics as a dynamic product of the individual (at interpersonal and sociopolitical levels) and recognizes the situatedness of ethics in specific cultures and times, we need to add specific insight from philosophy of technology and STS about human agency and “the good” when living in a world where data and computing technologies are a necessary aspect of daily life. In other words, using the definition requires acknowledging the ways in which science and technology relate to the human sense of self, interpersonal relations, and institutions in ways that are essential to observe and understand if we are to discuss the good life in the datafied world. Below, I examine what is unique to ethics in the datafied world by looking at the interplay of the datafied world, human agency, and the concept of the good life.The question of who is acting is central to ethics across time, but takes on a unique meaning in the datafied world. In traditional data and computing ethics approaches, the question of who is acting usually remains an unexamined assumption, namely that it is the technologist (technology worker or leader) who takes the ethicallysignificant action. More generally, ethics traditionally considers the human as the actor (Jonas, 1984). How, however, is the capacity to act informed or altered by technology? For a long time people have empowered technologies to take specific actions in their place (Latour, 1992) and humans regularly delegate agency to technological artifacts and to the sociotechnical systems that support their functioning (Jasanoff, 2016). We delegate the power to technologies to make decisions for different reasons, including safety, efficiency, and in the name of values that are harder to define like impartiality or perceived limits of human decisionmaking. History of technology teaches that instead of having a cleaner separation among decisions humans make and decisions technologies make, there is greater interdependence among them (Mindell, 2015). Our present challenge and opportunity arises from the integrated power to act that is shared and distributed among humans and technologies. Scholarship on how technological mediation changes the possibility and significance of human action (Borgmann, 1984; Ess, 2014; Hollan et al., 2000; Jonas, 1984; Moricot, 2020; Verbeek, 2005) is necessary for thinking about ethics in the context of the datafied world.Another significance for humantechnological agency in the datafied world is a transformed nature and distribution of risk. As in older sociotechnical systems, the distribution of risk in the datafied world is uneven. Less advantaged populations and innocent victims (e.g. those living around a nuclear reactor, or passengers on an airplane) are disproportionately more affected than others because they cannot mount the same effort to avoid or defend themselves from the risk (Elish, 2019; Jasanoff, 2016). Aggravating this problem in the datafied world, technologies create the possibility of “informational harm” (representation, identity, influence, surveillance) whose “risk” is harder to identify and quantify (Metcalf et al., 2016). Informational harms include influence on democratic processes, such as public expression and deliberation, and transformations to how people represent themselves and are represented by others. These harms make failure of sociotechnical systems in the datafied world more difficult to identify, measure, and avoid than more traditional physical or environmental harms of noncomputational sociotechnical systems. Furthermore, managing risk by restricting the use of technologies towards only a particular aim is more difficult because the datafied world context can make actions both faster (realtime interplay of human and mechanical agency, as in robotassisted surgery) and more extended in time (datasets offer continual opportunity for reanalysis in context of new datasets and research questions). New forms of risk in the datafied world require its inhabitants to articulate new narratives about action and responsibility, reconcile these narratives with evolving understandings of the good life, and advance collective abilities (via participation through institutions) to manage these issues.STS findings of the dynamics of humantechnology action should inform our thinking about ethics in the datafied world. Consider, for example, what the integration of human and technological action means for the central ethical task of giving an account of one's actions. In machine learning, engineers purposefully program algorithms to carry out analyses that human beings are thought to be incapable of, where power to decide on a course of action is delegated to algorithms and their material implementation in robots (e.g. “autonomous” vehicles). Computer scientists further program algorithms to create emergent learned behavior in machines. What happens to the capacity of a person to give an account of their actions when human agency is intertwined with algorithmic and mechanical agency such that portions of a human actor's account may not be understood by or be accessible to the person? What is the significance of a changed temporality of action with data where yet unknown future applications can reframe not only old data but old decisions? What happens to the capacity to take action aimed at the good life with and for others when the perception of those others is mediated by an algorithmically outputted risk score? Or where the human speaking with you is merely giving voice to an automated script (Zigon, 2019)?By intermingling human and technical action, distributing action in space and time, obscuring human oversight, and redefining risks, the datafied world context obliterates the possible adequacy of reductive and instrumental ethical prescriptions. Ethicsastechnology approaches might serve as limited guardrails, but they are not capable of addressing the extent of the significance of ethics of data and computing issues, neither for the individual nor for the collective. By contrast, Ricoeur's definition of ethics offers a process by which people can examine their identities as intertwined with technologies; formulate narratives about how they live, act, and interact; examine those narratives against their understanding of the good life; examine how their understanding of the good life is shaped by technology and challenged by these new narratives; and come full circle to advance their understanding of themselves in relation to the world around them.Technologies and the goodAs societies we are much better at trying to avoid catastrophes (through mechanisms that have been created for evaluating and managing risks of technologies) than at thinking about the nature of the good that any given technology embodies and organizes. In order to fully consider ethics in the context of the datafied world, we need a way to think about the relationship of data technologies and conceptions of the good (Ess, 2014; Higgs et al., 2000; Wang, 2015).Ironically, it is the response to novel forms of action, made possible by the integration of human and technological action, that society evolved the reductive and instrumental view of ethics applied to technology. Seeing the reality of new forms of risks created by sociotechnical systems of modernity (Beck, 1986), late 20th century governments embraced techniques of risk assessment and management (Jasanoff, 1999, 2016), of which research ethics, codes of conduct, ethics checklists, and toolkits are primary tools (Hilgartner et al., 2016; Tallachini, 2015). This culture of risk, and mechanisms for dealing with it, frame ethics as being primarily about risk management and catastropheavoidance, rather than about shared definitions of the good life, developed and adopted through just institutions.Similarly for technologies of data and computing, the idea of the good, which the humantechnological action aims for, is usually not analyzed, but remains present by a proxy of concepts like “privacy,” “fairness,” “transparency,” and “security.” When we realize that ideas of good (such as certain visions of fairness, justice, efficiency, etc.) are at the origin of technologies, we see that any technology carries, and does work to realize, a particular conception of the good. We begin to pay attention to the ways in which technologies’ design and deployment in pursuit of the good further refigure and actualize certain conceptions of the good, usually at the expense of others. This is part of the dynamic thinking of the good life that Ricoeur's concept of the ethical aim points to: a recognition that the idea of the “good,” which serves as the aim, emerges from the situated and contextualized process of ethics.Shannon Vallor has contributed extensively to the capacity to theorize the relationship of technology and the good life. In her work, Technologies and the Virtues: A Philosophical Guide to a Future Worth Wanting, Vallor calls for “rewrit the conventional script of philosophical ethics” (Vallor, 2016: 9) in light of the need to “include an explicit conception of how to live well with technologies” (Vallor, 2016: 3). Vallor proposes virtue ethics as a solution. She calls for the cultivation of “technomoral habits and virtues,” qualities of an individual person's character that can serve as a “cane” or “strategy” to make technomoral choices under conditions of “acute technosocial opacity.” A virtuous character, Vallor argues, can support human decisionmaking about technologies in situations when those technologies present novel options and envelop human reasoning and foresight in a “technological fog.”Although Ricoeur's framework of ethics is built upon a strong foundation in virtue ethics and the cultivation of a person's character over a lifetime, virtue is not the only and not the central element of the narrative approach to ethics. Ethics as “the aim at the good life with and for others in just institutions” takes away the emphasis from individual choice under conditions of uncertainty to consider the continuous and dynamic configuration of self in relation to collectives and institutions. In this context, the interesting questions about technology and the good are less focused on making good “technomoral choices,” and more on arrangements of technology and the good. Within the coproductionist idiom, an analytic tool for identifying these arrangements is the framework of sociotechnical imaginaries (Jasanoff and Kim, 2009, 2015). Sociotechnical imaginaries are “collectively held, institutionally stabilized, and publicly performed visions of desirable futures, animated by shared understandings of forms of social life and social order attainable through, and supportive of, advances in science and technology” (Jasanoff, 2015: 4). Visions of desirable futures contain tacit and explicit commitments to the good, such as ideas about what kinds of beings are worthy of esteem and what forms of life are worth living.I propose four different ways that we can engage with the framework of sociotechnical imaginaries in the process of ethics that aims at the good life in the datafied world. These are ways to think about the coproduction of technology and the good: (1) What ideas of the good influence the creation of the technology? (2) What idea of the good is embodied in a technology? (3) How has the use of technology altered users’ idea of the good over time? (4) Where and how can we challenge the alliances between ideas of the good and the technologies that claim to realize those goods (Benjamin, 2019; Haraway, 1985)?Ricoeur reminds us that the concept of the “good life,” that “nebulus of ideals and dreams of achievements” according to which a life is evaluated, looms over human actions. Coproduction and sociotechnical imaginaries corroborate this and provide the crucial insight that it is not possible to conceive of these ideals and dreams as separate from the technologies among which we live. In contrast to the ethicsastechnology paradigm that aims to deliver technologies that bring about a narrowlytechnical conception of the good, the coproductionist framework for ethics draws attention to the entanglement of concepts of the good and technology as a starting point for inquiry into ethics. It further recognizes that the “good” is not the goal of ethics in and of itself, but rather a means to the process of individual, interpersonal, and societal formation.Conclusion: practicing coproductionist ethicsThis article moves away from the idea that ethics is a technology that is the responsibility of technologists alone to wield such that, when coupled with data and computing technologies, it will produce social good. Rather than centering “good products,” I propose to center the self in the context of human relationships as the space within which ethics happens. The coproductionist framework for ethics is rooted in a temporal, embodied experience of being human among other people, within social institutions, and in a context of dynamic possibilities of action and the good, as these are expressed in the datafied world. When a person puts coproductionist ethics into practice they draw attention to four dimensions of ethical life in the datafied world: identities, institutions, representations, and discourses (Jasanoff, 2004).First, where the ethicsastechnology approach addresses the person in the singular dimension of their relationship to the case as the technologist, designer, or entrepreneur, the coproductionist approach recognizes people's varied and dynamic relationships to the case and the fact that identity is constituted by one's actions. It invites each student of the ethical aim in the datafied world to inquire about their various positionalities (Crenshaw, 1991) and relationships to the case and to think through these together. For example, a person at the Palantir protest may be a computer science student and a child of an immigrant. They may have friends who are undocumented or who already work for Palantir. They may be a citizen of the US or a resident of a city where an ICE raid occurred. They may be an administrator or alumni of the University or a teacher of ethics. Each person's positionalities inform what agency is available to them, and to whom, and for what they have responsibility. This multidimensionality should not be seen as a source of moral confusion or incapacity to act and we should not seek to reduce this complexity to a single dimension. Instead, we need to actively investigate the ways in which the agencies and responsibilities associated with the various positionalities are reinforced, brought into contradiction, and brought into being. Having considered one's own varied relational identities, agency possibilities and obligations, the coproductionist ethics approach invites each person to think about the others’ relationship to the case in a similarly multidimensional and dynamic manner.Second, each person's multidimensional and constitutive identity in relation to the case is an invitation to consider the collective and institutional means of pursuing the ethical aim. While in the ethicsastechnology approach agency is expressed primarily in the actions and choices of an individual (the designer, technology worker, CEO, user), in the coproductionist ethics approach, agency is necessarily distributed, collective, and institutionalized. The coproductionist approach invites people to reframe the perceived ethical problems, choices, and solutions into collective terms. In protesting Palantir's ability to advertise to students, the protesters recognized and mobilized the power of collective action in the name of a university committed to public service and social justice, performing that commitment and building the institution in the process.Third, coproductionist data ethics draws attention to the way in which the “good life” as the goal of the ethical aim is itself prefigured by ways of knowing and practicing with data technologies. Instead of the ahistorical, decontextualized, and alleged universal recommendations of ethicsastechnology, the coproductionist approach attends to how representations of the “good life” present in any technology is a product of culturallyspecific and historicallycontingent conditions and implicit social structures. For example, Palantir participated centrally in constituting post 9/11 regimes of security via new data techniques of risk prediction and management (Amoore, 2013) and, in so doing, contributed to creating the “undocumented” subject as an entity that the Federal government could act upon via its Palantir technologyarmed ICE officers. The coproductionist perspective reveals how the techniques of data and computing are always already oriented towards a conception of the good of security in which the undocumented person is perceived as a threat. Instead of seeing technology as a morally neutral tool that can be directed towards “good” or “bad” ends, the coproductionist approach reveals the extent to which representations of the good are constitutive of technologies as well as identities and values that they make cohere.This insight brings to light a realworld tension for the analysis of the student protests against Palantir. On the one hand it suggests that even if the protests are successful and Palantir is not admitted to recruit students on campus, students learning data science and computing learn with these sciences and techniques the values of security that they deem so clearly problematic in the Palantir case. At the same time, it points to the way that the protestors work to deny Palantir a platform of recruitment, is a powerful way of contesting this alliance of technology and the good around security and surveillance regimes. Again, the coming to light of this complexity of the ethical aim should not be seen as a problem or as justification for inaction or moral relativism. Instead, it can further point students of coproductionist ethics to consider the plurality of actions available to them, from advocating to change university practices, to what courses they take and how aware they are about the history of the techniques they learn, as well as the means and forms in which they account for their actions to others.Fourth, the insights about identities, institutions, and representations from the coproductionst data ethics discussed above return fullcircle to the narrative identity of the protester or students in the classroom. The students tell an account to the world of why they have gathered to protest the university's relationship with Palantir. In so doing, they affirm in the narrative their opinions and demands, and follow through with their ethical aim, which results in the remaking of a discourse. “UC Berkeley should take a page out of its own curriculum” identifies the students as caring about the ethical contexts of data technologies and affirms their will to hold the educational institution accountable to public service and social justice. Through the statement, the students affirm, with conviction, who they are and what they stand for.To center the narrative account of the case requires considering the medium in which the narrative was made. As a tweet, carried by a key communication platform of the datafied world, the narrative can reach people around the world and be linked with other protests to amplify resistance. Read in a different way, the tweet can be interpreted to collapse the narrative of the protest into an ethicsastechnology statement, that is, to define the ethical action as that which prescribes removing Palantir from the campus program as the only ethical response. The way in which narratives are deployed in this case and how they produce and shape the ethical aim supports the need to make sense of the ethical aim in the context of the datafied world in which it invariably unfolds.Taken together, this reframing of the case with the coproductionist ethics framework, suggests (but does not prescribe) certain kinds of action for aiming towards the good life in the datafied world. These actions solicit and draw upon insight that emerges from people's varied identities, relationships with and perspectives on the situation of interest; they privilege acting with and through collectives and institutions; they question the representational alliances between the good and the technologies at play; and they deliberately deploy discourses to form one's own and others’ identity and convictions in relation to the situation. Unlike ethicsastechnology approaches that seek to solve the ethical aspects of data and computing technologies by bracketing off discussion of what “the good” means and narrowing the scope of action to pursue it, the coproductionist ethics approach is an instrument of humility (Jasanoff, 2003). It is based upon the recognition of a partial, situated selfinformation and the limited capacity of anyone to know and pursue “the good,” therefore necessitating collective and processual sensemaking. Such a humble instrument, however, may be our strongest ally in the task of aiming at a good life in the datafied world.the goodlifeokay so what it really means to have agood life sometimes we questionourselves how to do it and how to have agood lifeas much as we couldokay soaccording to plato so let's try totalk about plato and aristotle indiscussing about the good lifeand i know that everyone of us we aretrying our best to have a good lifeand i think we we all strive to to bebetter because of achieving a good lifeso according to plato the best the bestway for us to achieve a good life is tounderstand ourselves firstso we need to understand ourselvesin order for us to embracereality in order for us to appreciate agood life is to understand understandourselves first but how can we do itokay so because if we really understandourselves and how to achieve our dreamsour goals in lifeit would be easy for us to achieveachieve a good lifeokay so but aristotle as we all knowthat aristotle is a student of platoright soplatowe need to understand ourselves first inorder for us to have a good life butaristotle is trying to havea very detailed distinctiona very definite extensionbetweenthe theoretical and the practicalsciencesso instead of just understandingourselves according to plato aristotleis trying to define more on how we canreally achieve a good life i am alsoaiming for a good life also trying toquestion myself am i really achieving agood life for myselfokay soaristotle was showing to have us astronga strong distinction between thetheoretical and practical sciences inachieving a good lifeplato the best way for us to achievegood life is tounderstand ourselves firstfor us to embrace the idea of realitywhat is really in us is to understandourselves first but according toaristotle and trying to achieving goodlife is first let's try to have a strongdistinction between the practicalsciences and the theoretical sciences solet's start with the theoreticalsciences when you talk about theory theyare they're more focused on the truthlike learn to practical sciences yourmain focus is finding the good life thatthe good is the end goal of life andthat is our goal as humans right we areall finding or trying our best to have agood lifeand i would say yesit's true as humans we ourselvesevery attempt is we are trying itbecause we want to know something rightso the main goal ofof trying something or learningsomething is to knowit's trying to find the truthand part of trying to find the truth iswhen you know the truth it's easy for usto achieve a good life because you knowthatthat is really important for you becauseyou know thatthat's the only way for you to improveor to do something is to find what isreallyyour real self what is really the truthabout yourselfand that's how you achieve a good lifebecause according to practical sciencesthe end goal of the good is the end goalof lifeokaysowhat does it really mean to have a goodlifewe need to get to know deeper aboutourselves we need we need to go to thedeepest existentialneeds as human beings what is reallyimportant for youand trying to assess ifthat important thing reallymake you a better person really give youa good existenceokay so let's let's talk aboutthe idea betweenthe idea of aristotle andhow we all aspire for a good lifei know everybody of us we are trying toaspire for a good life for a better lifethat's why we are doing this we aredoing that we are doing a lot of thingsbecause we aspire for a good lifeand it's it's all common for everyoneit's it's common for me and it's it'svery common for all of us so we allaspire for good life so aristotle istrying totry to tell us howhow do we aspire a good lifeso compared to plato plato is a teacherof aristotlearistotle is trying to get into theto get into deeperabout the realthe real meaning of life and how wereally aspire for a good lifeand soaristotle is trying to to tell us or tocontradict the idea of plato andaccording to aristotleor plato is trying to tell us thatthere are things in this world that arenot real so there are things that arenot real in this world they are justcopies of the real in the world of formsso meaningeverything you see here they are notreal they are just copies of the of thethings that you seeright soit is not it is not real so what usewhat you see in yourself what is what isgoing on around us those are not realthey are just copies of the real in theworld of the forms because we are livingin the different forms right so since weare living in the different forms that'swhyplato is trying to tell us that since weare living in a different formsso you are just following it you arejust copying it what you see you justcopied so it is not real that'saccording to plato so i am doing thisbecause i am just copying what is reallyexistingso partly maybe i would sayyes i am just copying i am doing thisbecause i just copied what is what ishappening around us we are now living ina digital world right and we area sort of digital warriors because weare trying to explain things usingtechnology so mayberight so maybe we say yeah we are is itthe these are not realthese are just copies of the real in theworld of formsokay so but aristotle aristotle istrying to claim thatthere is more to it platothere is more to the things thatthat we experience there are a lot ofthings we still need to go into deeperthatthis world is the only reality accordingto aristotle no plato this world is therealis the only reality we can all access sothis is real according to aristotleall the things that we experience thoseare real but according to plato thoseare not real they are just copies of thereal in the world of formssomaybe you will justsay yes i would agree with plato or iwould not agree with platoyes you will say withyou will answer yes i would agree witharistotle thatthis is realand this is the only things that i canaccesswhat i experience now those are realwhat what are the things that i've donebeforethose are we sometimes we have some alot of doubtsif you are going toto agree with plato or toagree with aristotle okay so it reallydepends on us and how we foresee thingsokay this these are just the concept ofplato and aristotle so i am justtransmitting it to you so that you canalso make some realizationabout ourselves and how toachieve a good life sothese people are two brilliant peopleokay sothey are also philosophers right sothey're trying to explain to usbetter in a veryin a very good way so try toto explain more about ourselvesokay so for platoplato is trying to tell us that thereare two realities that's why plato istrying to tell us thatthis world are not realbecause they are just copies of the realworld in the world of formssothese things are not realbecause we are changingthese things are not real because we arejust copying it to someone these thingsare not real because we are just copyingin the world of formsso what whatever they are doingwe just copied itso those are not realokay so there are two realitiesaccording toplato according to platothere is the world of forms and theworld of matterright so the world of forms and theworld of matter those are the tworealities ofpeople are in the world i mean in theworld of matterthings are changing things areimpermanentthings aretransitioning from this one to that oneso we can predict liferight so according to plato there aretwo realities in the world of matterthings are changing impermanent in theworld of formswe are just copying what is existingokay so we are just copyingdifferent people we are just copyingdifferent things and that is in theworld of forms we are forming ourselvesto someone we are forming ourselvesbecause people are people are doing thatokay so those are the two realitiesaccording to plato and i don't know ifyou believe plato or if you believearistotle about how we aspire a goodlife about the concept of the good lifeokayso for exampleyou are doing that because people arealso doing thatso you are living in whatyou are livingin the world of formsat the same timeimpermanentbecause we are living in the world ofmatter and in the world of forceokay so those are the idea of platookay so those are the that's why if weblend in for example if you are if youare not used to doing this but if yourfriends are also doing that when you trytoto blend in or to form to formyourselves to blend in with themyou can change thatthings are changing and impermanentbecause you are living again in theworld of forms and in the world ofmatter mattersince youyou try to transform yourself intosomeone into someone bettertherefore you are changing yourself tosomeone to fit in and that is the ideaof platookay so but aristotle againdisregarded the idea with his teacher'sposition the idea of his with histeacher plato so aristotle claimed thatthere is no reality over and above whatthe senses can perceivearistotle disregarded the idea of platobecause according toaristotle according to aristotle it isonly by observing others that we canappreciate our real existenceit is only by observing what people aredoing that we canwe canfeel that we are really existing in thisworldbecause according to aristotle this isour life is real and this is real we aredoing it because this is real and theseare the only things that we can accessso so he decided to contradict the ideaof his teacher because there is noreality above and beyond what what thesenses can perceiveso thereforewe we learn something by observing otherpeopleand part of observing other people is tois to change ourselves because we areobserving them as part of it is tochange ourselves to become betterand once we change ourselves we aretrying to aspire a good lifebecausewhen wewhen we learn to observepeople who are very successful we aretrying to adapt it to ourselves and thatis reality that's according to aristotlethat is reality soby using our five senses we canappreciate lifeby observing other people we can alsochange ourselves and that is reality sohe can he disregard the idea of platothat that tells us thatthere are only two realitiesthe world of forms and the world ofmatterso we are just like this because we arejust copyingwhat what you seeokay so there's a bit ofthere's a bit of confusion between theidea of plato and aristotleokay soaccording to plato againthis world are not real they are justcopies of the real in the world of formsbut aristotle try to tell us tell usthat this world is the only reality andthat that's the only thing that we canaccessokayso take notewe areif you're going to use the idea ofaristotle you're also trying to to thinkabout yeswe aspire a good life because we see alot of successful people that's whywhen we aspire to have a good life weare also changing ourselves to becomebetter and changing ourselves is veryinherent in humanlike us i am also changing myself to bebetter and that is instinct and that isinstinctual for humans to do thatbecause that's the only way we canaccess life by observing others by bychanging ourselves and to move forwardabout our lives and that's the idea ofaristotleand i would say i would agree to theidea of aristotle rightplato has it has also his own idea aboutdiscussion is i would agree with theidea of aristotlearistotle is trying to have a strongdistinction about what is real andthe only things and reality is the onlything that we can all accessokay so every human being's movesaccording to some andyes it's truewe do this because we have a purposewe do this because we aspire somethingfor ourselves we do something because wehave a goaland the end goal of life is to have agood lifeokaythe goodis the ultimateand goal of lifeto have a good lifeokay soevery actionor every thing that we do for ourselveswe all aspireto have a good life and i think nobodywants to do something without a purposewe all do something because you have apurpose you have a goal and that is theidea ofaristotleno individual male or female resisthappinessand aristotle trying to explain to usthatto be happy is the end goal of lifeand we do things because we want to behappy and that is our goal to tell usrightwe are doing it because we have apurpose we want to be happy we want toto do this becausewe love what we are doing we are happywith what we do and that is the end goalof lifeso nobody resists happinessright nobody resists happinessand we all aspire to be happy and tohave a good lifeand actually aristotle is trying toexplain to us the idea of humanflourishingbeing contented being contented on thethings that we do now being happy on thethings that we are doing now so if we'regoing to ask someone who is doing thethings that he is doinguh the if you're trying to ask thatpersonwhy are you doing thatthe answer would be because i am happyit makes me happyand that is the end goal of lifeaccording to aristotle we are movingforward we are transforming ourselveschanging ourselves because we have agoaland this is not all about transformingourselves because we are just copying itto anyoneor we are just following what the peopleare doing we have a goalright so i have also a goal where i'mdoing this i have a goalokay so hopefully i can influence somesomeone who will who are also strugglingtoto do the remodel right sopossibly i can i can help them in my ownlittle wayokay so we all want to be happy and weall aspire to have a good lifeso happiness as the goal of a good lifeso just being happyis the ultimate and the drama drivingforce to have a good lifeis ever going to ask me are you happydoing this yesokay i am very much happy when i hearyour commentswhen you send me messages that mom thankyou so much you are helping a lot a lotof students is reallyhappy about what i doso i am happythat's why i am always uhsparing time to do this becauseat least in my own little way i was ableto help studentsso john stewart milldeclared the idea that the greatesthappiness principle isas long asyou are doing it and then you are happyand then a lot of people are also happybecause you are doing it and that ishappiness meaning this is the idea ithink if i am not mistaken the idea ofutilitarianismthe greatest number of peopleor happinessequals tohow many people are happy with what youdo are they happy with what you do andthat is the idea of utilityutilitarianismhappiness as the goal of a good lifeso if a lot of people are happy withwhat you do and that therefore what youare doing is right happy or happiness wewe should use the greatest happinessprinciple nomeaningif you are doing such actionif people are if a lot of people arehappy with what you do therefore you aredoing the right thing and that ishappinessgreatest number of peoplethe greatest happiness principle andthat is the idea ofhow do we achieve happiness as the goalof a good lifeokay so for example if i do this do i dodo you think a lot of students are happywith what i dotherefore this is the idea of johnstewart meal the greatest number ofpeoplethe greatest happiness principle is toconsider is to consider the the peoplewho is who is also affected by what youdo okay to the greatest number of peopleso let's talk about materialism thereare people who consider their ownhappiness based on material thingsrightconsidered material things as one oftheir happinessokay sowe will talk about the idea ofmaterialism materialismthey base their own happiness based onthe things that they haveokay so according to this people soaccordingaccording to the mukritos and hisdisciplesthere are human beingsaccording to them human beings is madeup of matter so what do you mean by thisthey made up of mata becausethey they love tothey love to get something and once theyget something they are happy they basetheir own happiness based on the thingsthat they have okay that's the idea ofmaterialism okay so they they feel theidea of human flourishing if theyget a lot of things and that is theirprimary source of happiness and we can'tblame them because there are there arereally a lot of people who are basingtheir own happiness based on what theyhave or what they there are also peoplelike thisthat they also considerthe end of gold life is acquiringpleasure the idea of hiddenness or thepeoplethis one for hiddenness the end goal oflife is to acquire pleasureaccording to themwe need to acquire pleasure the thingsthat make us happyand they are very known for thisfor this coat eat drink and be merry fortomorrow we dieokay so meaning there are more focus onon acquiring pleasure if you are happywith what you do do it because it givesyou pleasure that's the idea ofhiddenness and that's how theythey measure or the end goal of life isto acquire pleasureand if it doesn't give you pleasure thenwe should stop it because it doesn'tgive you pleasurethat's the idea of hiddennessit's very different from the idea ofmaterialism because materialism thoseare the peoplethat considerthemselves as a matterthat everything that they acquire inthis worldtheir cell phone their cars their housesit gives them happiness for hedonistsjust be happy and be merry for tomorrowwe die that's the idea of hedonists okayhumanism yesthose are the people whowho always say that i am the captain ofmy own shipand people who are following thisthey always say that they have thefreedom to carve their own destiny andthey have the freedom to do things thatthey love because they arethey can create their own lawsso i am free with the things that i loveto do i am free from the people who istrying to control me and that is theidea of humanismtrying to be at your own trying to to bea captain of your own shipso or we are not considering ourselvesas a steward of the creationbut as individuals who can controlourselvesin this reality we are a people who cando what what is good for us we are thepeople who are good at itsowe don't let anyone control us and thatis the idea of humanism for humanistthey are the captain of their own shipsoif you're going toanalyze sothe things that we are discussing nowwhether you agree or not but if you aretrying toto think about thispeople are really changing and peopleare really striving to have a good lifeand we can blame them if they are usingif they are using theism focusing on godto be happy if they are using humanismtrying to cure their own destiny if theyare if they are following the stoichismor trying to be indifferentanda lot of things we can't blame thembecause the main purpose here is toattain a good life i am also aiming fora good life we all doright and it's quite it's quite unusualfor us not to aim something good forourselvesthat's whyas long as you are happy with what youdo as long as you are not hurtingsomeone as long as you you know what youwhat you do best i think it's the endgoal of life is to be happy and i wouldagree to the idea of aristotlethat this is reality your life is realmy life is real and we are all livingbecause this is our reality WHEN TECHNOLOGY AND HUMANITY CROSSTECHNOLOGY 'Technology" came from the Creek words techne  art logos  word a discourse on art (Buchanan, 2010)TECHNOLOGICALADVANCEMENTSIN SOCIETYIn one way or another, each person in the society isdirect/yor indirectly affected by technology whether hewills it or not. Most people survive their everyday lives with greatreliance to the different technological advancementsalready available to the masses. Technology is already an inevitable part of the society.TELEVISION According to Kantar Media, in the Ph, 92% of urbanhomes and 70% of rural homes own at least onetelevision set. Households with TV set reached 15.135M What would these imply? Ultimate medium for advertisement placements. Almost all use this particular type of device.Television plays a great role in the lives of the people.PAUL GOTTLIEB NIPKOW Late 1800s Successful in his attempt to send mages through wireswith the aid of a rotating metal disk (Nipkow disk) "electric telescope"  18 lines of resolutionALAN ARCHIBALD CAMPBELLSWINTON& BORIS ROSING New system of television by using the cathode raytube in addition to the mechanical tunerMOBILE PHONES Filipinos love to use their mobile phones anywhere,anytime. More than half of the Filipino population own at leastone mobile phone regardless of type. 2010 Synovate declared 67% product ownership inthe country. Mobile phones are considered a must have amongyoung Filipinos (ABSCBN News, 201 0)1 out of 3 Filipinos cannot live without a mobilephone Ipsos Media Atlas Philippines NationwideUrban 201 1 2012 survey.MARTIN COOPERSenior engineer at MotorolaWeighed 1.1 kg Measured 228.6 X 127 X 44.4 m 30minute talk time 10 hours to chargeCOMPUTERS & LAPTOPS Not possible for all Filipino families to own at leastone computer or laptop. Most profits gained by computer and laptopmanufacturers come from offices, businesses, orschools.Growing number of Internet users in the Ph, problemsregarding the Internet providers.CHARLES BABBAGE 19th century English Mathematician designed the Analytical Engine. Released in June 1981 by the Osbourne ComputerCorporation, the Osborne is considered to be the ISttrue portable.ROLES PLAYED BY THESETECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTSTelevision sets Mobile phones Computers and LaptopsETHICAL DILEMMAS1 . Most parents would argue that these devices maketheir children lazy and unhealthy2. People are freely exposed to different things ontelevisions, mobile phones, computers and laptops.ETHICS OF RESPONSIBILITY "Responsibility" in the sense of being accountable for andaccountable to is very appropriate to the ethics of technology. What ought to be allowed?ROBOTICS & HUMANITYRobot An actuated mechanism programmable in two or moreaxes with a degree of autonomy, moving within itsenvironment, to perform intended tasks. Autonomy ability to perform intended tasks basedon current state and sensing without humanintervention.THREE LAWS OF ROBOTICS1 .A robot may not injure a human being or, throughinaction, allow a human being to come to harm.2.A robot must obey orders given it by human beingsexcept there such orders would conflict with the 1law.3.A robot must protect its own existence as long assuch protection does not conflict the ISt and 2nd law.ETHICAL DILEMMAS FACED BY ROBOTICS1. Safety Who should be held accountable if someone's safety iscompromised by a robot?Who should be blamed, the robot, the agent using therobot, or the maker/inventor of the robot?2. Emotional Component It is not completely impossible for the robots todevelop emotions.What if robots become sentient? Should they be granted robot rights?When Technology And Humanity Cross EssayWhat happens when technology and humanity cross? This essay explores the idea of technology becoming more humanlike, and what implications this might have.What Is Technology?Technology is the application of scientific knowledge for practical purposes, especially in industry. In general, technology refers to the use of tools, machines and processes to solve problems or create new products.Humanity is the quality of being humane; kindness, benevolence and sympathy. Humanity is often used as a synonym for kindness.When technology and humanity cross, it can result in amazing advances that help make our lives easier and better. But it can also lead to unforeseen consequences that can have negative impacts on our lives and society. It’s important to be aware of both the potential positives and negatives of technology so that we can make informed decisions about its use.What Is Humanity?How can we define humanity? Is it our capacity for reason and emotion? Or is it something more?Some people say that technology is dehumanizing – that it’s making us less compassionate, more detached from one another. But is that really true?Sure, technology can be used in ways that are harmful to humans. But it can also be used to connect us with each other and the world around us in ways that were previously impossible.Think about all the ways you use technology in your everyday life. You probably use it to stay in touch with friends and family, to access information and entertainment, to get around town, and more. In all of these ways, technology is enhancing our humanity, not diminishing it.Of course, there are always going to be people who misuse technology. But that doesn’t mean we should give up on it altogether. Instead, we need to find ways to use technology in a way that benefits humanity as a whole.Positive ImplicationsOne of the most significant benefits of technology is its ability to connect people across distances. The internet, social media platforms, and other digital communication tools have made it possible for people to stay in touch with friends and family members who live in different parts of the world. Furthermore, technology has made it easier for people to collaborate with others, regardless of their location. This has led to the emergence of new, global communities that are based on shared interests and goals.Technology has also transformed the way we work. Automation, artificial intelligence, and other technological advancements have made many jobs more efficient and less physically demanding. This has allowed workers to focus on more creative and intellectually challenging tasks, which can lead to greater job satisfaction and personal fulfillment.Negative ImplicationsDespite its many benefits, technology has also raised concerns about its impact on humanity. One of the most significant issues is the potential for technology to displace human workers. Automation and artificial intelligence have already led to job losses in some sectors, and many experts believe that this trend will only continue in the future.Furthermore, technology can be a doubleedged sword when it comes to social connections. While it has made it easier for people to connect with others across distances, it has also led to a decline in facetoface interactions. This has been linked to increased feelings of loneliness and isolation, as well as a decline in mental health.Another concern about the intersection of technology and humanity is the potential for it to be used for nefarious purposes. Cyberattacks, hacking, and other forms of cybercrime are becoming increasingly common, and these activities can have a devastating impact on individuals and organizations.ReflectionOn one hand, technology has allowed me to communicate with people from all over the world and provide them with valuable information. On the other hand, I am also aware of the potential for technology to be used in harmful ways, such as spreading misinformation or perpetuating harmful stereotypes.I believe that the key to harnessing the power of technology is to use it in a way that is ethical and responsible. This means ensuring that technology is designed with the best interests of society in mind and that it is used in a way that promotes human wellbeing. It also means recognizing that technology is not a panacea for all of society’s problems and that there are limits to what it can achieve.The Relationship Between Technology And HumanityTechnology has always been a part of humanity, even before the written word. From the simplest tools to the most complex machines, technology has always played a role in our ability to survive and thrive. Today, technology is more ubiquitous and integrated into our lives than ever before.While technology can be a great boon to humanity, it can also be a source of great harm. As our reliance on technology increases, so does our vulnerability to its failures. Whether it’s a natural disaster or a manmade one, when technology and humanity cross paths, the results can be devastating.In this blog section, we’ll explore the different ways that technology and humanity intersect, for better or for worse. We’ll examine how our increasing reliance on technology is changing the way we live and interact with each other. And we’ll ask whether or not this trend is sustainable in the long run.Technology Is Changing HumanityTechnology is changing the way we live, work, and communicate. It is becoming increasingly difficult to disconnect from technology, and many of us find ourselves relying on it more and more each day. While there are many benefits to this technological advances, there are also some drawbacks.Some experts believe that as we become more reliant on technology, we are losing some of our essential humanity. We are becoming less social, less compassionate, and more isolated. Our ability to empathize is declining, and we are struggling to connect with each other on a deeper level.Others believe that technology is actually helping us to connect with each other in new and innovative ways. They argue that we are using technology to express ourselves in new and creative ways, and that it is actually bringing us closer together.Regardless of which side you agree with, it is clear that technology is having a profound effect on humanity. As we continue to advance technologically, it is important to be aware of both the potential benefits and the potential drawbacks of these changes.Humanity Is Evolving Because Of TechnologyTechnology has always been a part of humanity’s story. From the first tools and fire to the latest smartphones and computers, technology has always played a role in our development. Today, it’s hard to imagine life without technology. We use it to communicate, work, learn, and entertain ourselves.But as technology becomes more and more advanced, it’s starting to change us as a species. We’re becoming more reliant on machines, and less capable of doing things for ourselves. Our attention spans are shorter, and we’re more easily distracted.Some people worry that we’re losing our humanity as we become more technological. But I believe that technology can actually help us become more humane. By giving us new ways to connect with each other and learn about different cultures, technology can help us become more compassionate and understanding. What’s important is that we use technology in balance with our own human qualities.ConclusionIn conclusion, it is evident that technology and humanity will continue to cross paths. As we become more reliant on technology, it is important to consider the implications of this relationship. With careful consideration, we can use technology to enhance our lives without sacrificing our humanity.What is the connection between humanity and technology?Technology and human life cannot be separated. Society has a cyclical codependence on technology. We use technology; depend on technology in our daily life and our needs and demands for technology keep on rising. Humans use technology to travel, to communicate, to learn, to do business and to live in comfort.What is the effect of technology to humanity and society?The effects of technology on society have been both positive and negative. While technology has made it easier to connect with others, access information, and improve medical care, it has also led to job loss, cyberbullying, and technology addiction.What are the pros and cons of today's technology?At present, over 60% of people have access to the internet, 6.5 billion people own a smartphone and more than 2.14 billion made at least one online purchase in 2021. These are just three examples that show how far the development of modern technology has come, and how our way of life has changed.But, does it empower us as a society, or on the contrary, does it make us more vulnerable? In this article, we investigate the pros and cons of technology.Pros of technologyTechnological innovation has boosted human wellbeing. Indeed, in the last 70 years, technological advantages have given humans the ability to live relatively comfortably within society. Here are some of the most notable advantages. Quick access to informationDemocratising access to information is undoubtedly one of the greatest advantages of technology. Today, some 6.3 million searches are conducted per minute on Google, a staggering fact that demonstrates the great thirst for knowledge out there, and which can be satisfied using smartphones that are able to access the internet from anywhere.Facilitated learning Some 49% of students worldwide stated that they had taken an online course in the last 12 months. The ease of access to online learning lets anyone train in anything they like without leaving their home.Moreover, according to a study conducted by the Economist Intelligence Unit, 90% of leaders in the education sector say that students are more imaginative and creative thanks to technology, as well as 80% more productive.Breaking the distance barrierThat technology has revolutionised the way we communicate is undeniable. A case in point is that, during the Covid19 lockdowns, in Spain alone, 8 out of every 10 citizens between 18 and 65 years old (79.53%) relied on video calls as a way to stay in touch with friends and family. A clear example of how technology has broken down distance barriers. Simplifying tasksTechnology turns tedious or complex tasks into interesting and simple ones. What's more, in recent years, automation and artificial intelligence have simplified tasks even further, making our daytoday life easier. One simple example are robot vacuum cleaners, which are able to independently get on with cleaning our homes. Providing entertainmentAnother advantage offered by technology is the ease with which we can access all manner of multimedia content designed for entertainment. Today, video and audio streaming makes up 70% of internet traffic, a figure that proves that the internet is one of the main sources of entertainment in the 21st century. Increased productivity and efficiencyModern technology boosts productivity as well as the efficiency of human activities, as it allows us to perform tasks in less time. Meanwhile, thanks to the huge amount of information available, better decisions can be made, and human error reduced.Increased life expectancyTechnology applied to medicine and healthcare has increased our life expectancy. According to data from the United Nations (UN), life expectancy in the 60s was 52.5 years while today, the average is 72. The Covid19 vaccine is undoubtedly a good example of an advantage of technology, given that, for example, in the United States it prevented 140,000 deaths and 3 million infections, a true milestone for science. Creating new jobsDespite what many people think, technology actually creates more jobs than it destroys. In the socalled fourth industrial revolution and by 2025, technology will have created over 97 million jobs around the world. Additionally, these new jobs will be more fulfilling for humans, as automation takes over the most boring or repetitive work, freeing humans to be more creative and innovative. Cons of technologyThere's no doubt that technology offers many advantages. However, its improper use or collateral damage from its production means that there are also some drawbacks to technology.AddictionIn recent years, many people have developed problems with technology addiction. The Spanish NGO Protect Them has revealed that 1.5% of citizens are already addicted to new technologies, while 21% of young people are at risk of 'getting hooked' on their mobiles. That's why it's vital to use technology properly, in order to fully enjoy all of its advantages. Ethical dilemmas The future of humanity seems to be heading towards what many movies have foretold: a society where artificial intelligence (AI) and robots play a major role. Just how far will these new technologies go? Will they be able to think or have feelings? Will they replace human beings? These are some of the ethical dilemmas that we will face in coming decades. Dehumanisation Another disadvantage of technology is that its improper use can lead to dehumanisation and foster social isolation. A joint study by the Higher Technical School of Industrial Engineers at the Polytechnic University of Madrid and the Faculty of Psychology at the University of Oviedo confirms that excessive use of mobile phones increases social isolation and psychological maladaptation, and creates social conflict.PollutionTechnological development involves collateral damage that directly impacts the environment. Industrialisation has accelerated climate change, deforestation and the excessive consumption of raw materials, among other things. However, the very development of technology can solve this problem by creating solutions that are more sustainable and environmentallyfriendly. PrivacyDid you know that, according to a study by IDC research, every day there are some 350,000 malware attacks worldwide? The lack of online security and exposure of sensitive data is another drawback when it comes to technology. Both companies and individuals are exposed to the dangers lurking on the Internet, because even when defensive measures are taken, they can fall victim to theft or data hijacking, causing major economic loss.As you can see, the pros and cons of technology are very varied, but the benefits outweigh the drawbacks, given that the development of science and technology has allowed us to evolve as a civilisation. In a world where technology is evermore present in our daily lives, having technological skills and abilities is vital, as this will allow you to develop a critical and realistic attitude towards the new technologies. As such, lifelong learning is the only way to empower yourself, making proper use and taking advantage of technological advances.With this aim in mind, and to help people progress, overcome the challenges posed by the fourth industrial revolution and grow in an inclusive and sustainable way, Banco Santander is committed to three key concepts to boost employability: lifelong learning, reskilling, and upskilling. To this end, it has developed the Santander Scholarships website, a unique, pioneering global programme.If you want to continue to grow both personally and professionally, head over to the Santander Scholarships website, where you will find hundreds of opportunities to train at the hand of prestigious international institutions. You will be able to access training courses in technology, languages, research and investigation, soft skills, practices, and female leadership, which will help you to improve your employability or refocus your career. Want to become a lifelong learner and increase your job opportunities? The Santander Scholarships website offers you plenty of options to help you achieve your goals. Check out the website and remember: you can sign up for as many scholarships as you like. Make the most of this opportunity!That's why, as part of this aim to boost employability and likewise help people to progress, overcome the challenges of the 4th industrial revolution, and grow in an inclusive and sustainable way, Banco Santander is committed to three key concepts: lifelong learning, reskilling and upskilling. To support this commitment, it has created the Santander Scholarships website, a unique and pioneering global programme. If you would like to keep growing personally and professionally, head over to the Santander Scholarships website, where you'll find 100s of opportunities to train together with internationally renowned institutions. Access training in technology, languages, research, investigation, soft skills, internships and female leadership, which will help you to improve your employability or refocus your career.Do you want to become a lifelong learner and increase your job opportunities? The Santander Scholarships website has plenty of options to help you achieve your goals. Check out the website and remember: you can sign up for as many courses as you like. Make the most of this opportunity!What is the Importance of Technology?What is the Importance of Technology?By SimplilearnLast updated on Aug 18, 2023108491What Is the Importance of Technology?Table of ContentsImportance and Benefits of TechnologyTypes of Technological Innovations and Their UsesHow Has Technology Changed Our Lives?Technology in Our Daily LivesTypes of Roles in the Field of TechnologyView MoreTechnology has witnessed impressive evolution in the past few decades, which has in turn transformed our lives and helped us evolve with it. Right from roadways, railways, and aircraft for seamless travel to making communication effortless from any part of the world, technology has contributed more than anything to help mankind live a life of luxury and convenience. It is also because of technology that we know our world and outer space better. Every field owes its advancement to technology, and this clearly indicates the importance of technology in every aspect of our lives. In the upcoming sections, we elaborate on the importance, benefits, and impact of technology. Importance and Benefits of TechnologyThere is continuous work and progress in the area of technology as it offers significant benefits. And these benefits have a huge impact on our daytoday lives and the operations of countless industries, such as healthcare, automobile, communication, manufacturing, and business, among others. With that said, here are ways in which technology is both important and immensely beneficial:1. Added EfficiencyOrganizations constantly struggle with the goal of maximizing their output while reducing the inputs. This is where technology is a game changer, especially automation. With automated processes, repetitive and redundant operations take minimal time or labor while ensuring expected output.2. Faster Decision MakingWith technologies such as artificial intelligence and machine learning, it has become easier than ever to handle large volumes of data and make crucial business decisions based on the insights derived from the data. In addition to this, technological resources add accuracy to the decisionmaking process as they reduce the scope of errors from manual operations.3. Cost and TimeSavingSince machines are way faster than humans, certain tasks that may require an incredible amount of manual work and attention to detail can be easily accomplished with the help of technology. Technology also ensures improved accuracy.Further, the use of technology in certain areas can also help save significant costs. For instance, transitioning to digital communication from paperbased communication and engaging machines in tasks that might take a lot more time to complete can help save costs.4. Competitive EdgeIn today’s day and age when organizations compete neck and neck, technology can be one aspect that empowers a company to outdo its competition. Oftentimes, technology also serves as a USP or something that sets the company apart from others in the eyes of potential clients and customers. With access to advanced technology, companies have the opportunity to create better products, which can ultimately help them improve their sales. 5. Increased InnovationTechnology has proven to be the most useful resource for almost any industry to move forward and make progress. Upgrades not only help organizations step up but they also ease the operations for employees as well as people in general. This underlines the importance of technology in making innovations, which has a largescale benefit.Types of Technological Innovations and Their UsesWhile technology finds its application in several fields and subfields, there are mainly three broad types of technological innovation, which are as follows:1. Semiradical TechnologySemiradical technology builds up on the technological knowledge that already exists. However, it aims to improve the already existing knowledge in ways that bring about innovation. For instance, smartphone brands keep rolling out newer versions of hardware with better features from time to time.2. Disruptive TechnologyDisruptive technology is a whole new innovation in a specific area, which disrupts an existing technology by making the innovation more accessible. It essentially makes for the best alternative by challenging the usefulness or relevance of the current technology. One of the best examples of disruptive technology is streaming music via various apps, such as Spotify and Apple Music, which has made the practice of downloading songs on a device almost obsolete.3. Incremental TechnologyIncremental technology, seemingly similar to semiradical technology, differs from it in a sense that it focuses on making smaller innovations to the already existing technological aspect. However, the smaller innovations contribute to significant improvement of a product. Upgrading the versions of operating systems, releasing security patches, or making modifications to the existing services of a company are all examples of incremental technology.How Has Technology Changed Our Lives?Technology is immensely useful both personally and professionally. While the way we live our lives has changed significantly with every technological innovation, it is just as true for businesses and industries, such as healthcare, education, construction and architecture, and entertainment—to name a few. With that said, here’s how technology has changed different spheres of our lives:1. Technology Makes Collaboration Easy We live in a world where collaboration is essential, and technology has transformed how we collaborate. Businesses specifically benefit a lot from the collaborative advantages of technological innovations that allow communication from any part of the world through virtual means. With this, businesses can tap into opportunities to expand globally or reach out to a wider audience with more ease.2. Technology Helps New BusinessesToday, technology empowers entrepreneurs to start new ventures and raise capital by offering a wide range of options. People with ideas can find ways to implement them and turn their ideas into the next big thing, create transformative business plans, and take their initial steps to start a business with more convenience. Technology also offers the advantage of easy scalability while improving both customer sales and employee processes.3. Technology Helps Create More Equality in SocietyTechnology has made it possible for people from all walks of life to have access to different resources. Further, technology is also being used to equip people who need a certain type of assistance to improve their quality of life and help them avail opportunities that would otherwise be inaccessible.For instance, with technological advancements, people with blindness or hearing difficulties can be provided assistance using technology. Further, healthrelated tools, such as artificial joints and cardiovascular implants help people with certain disabilities or health conditions to have an improved quality of life.Technology in Our Daily LivesTechnology has become an indispensable part of our daily lives. Everything we do right from starting our day to ending it involves some form of technology. One of the reasons why technology, no matter what field, has been a focus area for scientists and other professionals and stakeholders is that it adds convenience to our daytoday activities while saving us time and improving our quality of life.Right from our smartphones which are useful to us in more ways than we can imagine to various kitchen appliances, computer systems, means of communication, transport system, and online shopping (to name a few) have changed how we live our lives compared to a decade ago. The sheer benefits that technology bestows on our lives in smaller and bigger senses account for the continuous work in the direction of making further progress in technological innovations.Types of Roles in the Field of TechnologySince technology is associated with every possible field you can think of, the types of roles in the field of technology are limitless. However, some roles are a lot more in demand in the current times than others. Information technology is one such field, with job roles such as data scientists, software developers, cyber security experts, and computer programmers being lucrative options.Beyond the field of IT, fields like medical, space, robotics, superintelligence, pharmaceuticals, education, business, and automobile technology witness the scope for great advancements, thus creating many opportunities for individuals who aim to explore new technological possibilities in the respective fields.ConclusionHope this article was able to give you a clear understanding about the importance of technology in our lives. If you are looking to enhance your technological and software skills further, we would recommend you check Simplilearn’s Post Graduate Program in Full Stack Web Development in collaboration with Caltech CTME. This course can help you hone the right skills, stay updated with the latest technologies, and become jobready in no time.If you have any questions or queries, feel free to post them in the comments section below. Our team will get back to you at the earliest.FAQs1. Why is technology important to students?Technology, especially in current times, is of great importance to students as it facilitates seamless learning and online education, providing access to uptodate information.2. How does technology make our lives easier?Technology lends immense support in automating various tasks, setting up reminders, communicating efficiently, paying bills at the click of a button, and shopping for the simplest things, such as groceries to investing in valuable assets right in the comfort of our homes.3. How will technology help us in the future?With technology, there is an increased scope for financial stability, understanding investment and tapping into new opportunities without requiring expert knowledge, and growing businesses even with minimal investments. All these aspects will help us be equipped with the help we need to pursue any endeavor with readiness in the future.4. Can technology help save lives?Various technologies, such as robotic surgery simulators, home defibrillators, diagnostic devices, and the use of AI and machine learning have proven to be very useful in saving lives. WHEN TECHNOLOGY AND HUMANITY CROSS LESSON OBJECTIVES At the end of this lesson, the students should be able to: Know the different technological advancements in society; Discuss the development of science and technology in the Philippines; Discuss the effects of the interplay between technology and humanity through the dilemma (s) they face. Introduction The evergrowing society has made people see technology as some form of necessity. Technologycomes from the Greek word techne and logos which mean art and word. Technology means a discourse on arts. It first appeared in the 17th century where the concept was only used to talk about the arts, specifically applied arts. Concepts like machine and tools were also attached to the word “technology” which is the more popular sense of the concept nowadays. TELEVISION SETS, MOBILE PHONES, COMPUTERS AND HUMANITY A number of technological devices can be easily found inside the home, the most accessible place to anyone. It can also be easily inferred that these technological devices are some of the most popular and most commonly used types of devices across all age groups. People all over the world use these technologies every day to accomplish different purposes. TELEVISION A product of different experiments by various people. Paul Gottlieb Nipkow, a German student, in the late 1800s was successful in his attempt to send images through wires with the aid of a rotating disk. This invention was the called “electric telescope” that had 18 lines of resolution. In 1907, two inventors, Alan Archibald CampbellSwinton who was an English scientist and Boris Rosing who was a Russian scientist, created a new system of television by using cathode ray tube in addition to the mechanical scanner system.    Nipkow television    SwintonRosing television    MOBILE PHONES Mobile phones have a very interesting background story On April 3, 1973 Martin Cooper, a senior engineer at Motorola, made the world’s first mobile phone call. The mobile phone used by Cooper weighed 1.1 kilograms and measured 228.6 x 127 x 44.4 mm.  This kind of device was capable of a 30 minute talk time. However, it took 10 hours to charge. In 1983, Motorola made their first commercial mobile phone available to the public. It was known as the Motorola DynaTAC8000X (Goodwin, 2016)  COMPUTERS AND LAPTOPS It was Charles Babbage, a 19th century English Mathematics professor, who designed the Analytical Engine which was used as the basic framework of the computers even until the present time. In general, computers can be classified in three generations. Each generation of the computer was used for a certain period of time and each gave people a new and improved version of the previous one (Steitz, n.d.) The first true portable computer was released in April 1981.  It was called the Osborne 1 (Orfano, 2011)  A typical household owns at least four of the following devices: a mobile phone (89 %), smartphone (53 %), tablet (14 %), desktop ( 39 %), laptop or netbooks (37 %), and smart TV (4 %) ( Philstar, 2013) These data prove the deepseated fascination of Filipinos to different technological devices. Here are some facts about Filipinos and their use of gadgets and the Internet: Mobile phone subscription is at 119 million. Filipinos spend approximately 3.2 hours on mobile and 5.2 hours on desktop daily. Currently, the Philippines has one of the highest digital populations in the world. There are now 47 million active Facebook accounts in the Philippines. The Philippines is the fastestgrowing application market in Southeast Asia. Roles Played by These Technological Advancements Television advertisements and information dissemination  recreational activity and good stress reliever good platform for different propagandas and advocacies good way to bond Mobile Phones communication surf the internet take pictures Other applications like music player, calendar, radio and among others. Personal computers and laptops Surf the internet and communication use for job play games watch movie etc. Ethical Dilemma Faced by These Technological Advancements Most parents would argue that these devices make their children lazy and unhealthy. Moral dilemma First dilemma, people who develop different kinds of sickness because of too much use of technological devices. Second dilemma, the people in the scientific world nor the children are blameworthy because first, the children are not yet capable of rationally deciding for themselves what is good and what is bad. Second even the creators of these technologies went out of their way to inform children of the pros and cons of these technological contributions, it would still be useless because the children have no capacity to understand them yet. It was the recklessness and overconfidence of the adults that cause the character change in children. Robotics and Humanity Another great product of the innovative minds of the people is the robot. Robots are now widely used. Ex. There are so called service robots. These particular robots do specific tasks but focus mainly in assisting their masters in their everyday tasks. The International Federation of Robotics (IFR) and United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) made it their task to formulate a working definition for service robots. A preliminary extract of the relevant definition is (IFR, 2012): A robot is an actuated mechanism programmable in two or more axes with a degree of autonomy, moving within its environment, to perform intended tasks. A service robot is a robot that performs useful tasks for humans or equipment excluding industrial automation application. A personal service robot or a service robot for personal use is a robot used for a noncommercial task, usually by laypersons. Ex. Domestic servant robot, automated wheelchair, personal mobility assist robot, and pet exercising robot. A professional service robot or a service robot for professional use is a robot used for a commercial task, usually operated by a properly trained operator. Ex. Cleaning robot for public places, delivery robot in offices or hospitals, fire fighting robot, rehabilitation robot, and surgery robot in hospitals. Germany was one of the first countries to develop service robots.  As part of the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research’s “Service Robotics Innovation Lead Initiative,” it sponsored a collaborative project called DESIRE (Deutsche Servicerobotik InitiativeGermany Service Robotics Initiative) which was launced on October 1, 2005. DESIRE has the following individual objectives: To achieve a technological edge toward attaining key functions and components that are suited for everyday use To create a reference architecture for mobile manipulation To promote the convergence of technologies through integration into a common technology platform To conduct precompetition research and development activities for the new products and technology transfer in startup enterprises in the field of service robotics. Some of the expected work to be performed by DESIRE are the ff: “Clear up the kitchen table” “Fill the dishwasher” “Clear up this room” Roles Played by Robotics Used to ease the workload of mankind To make life more efficient and less stressful To entertain people Just like people living in the society, robots also have their own set of rules and characteristics that define what a good robot is.  These laws were formulated by Isaac Asimov back in the 1940’s, when he was thinking of the ethical consequences of robots. These are the following (Standford, n.d.): Law One: A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. Law Two: A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. Law Three: A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law. Ethical Dilemma/s Faced by Robotics Safety Emotional component Partial autonomy includes active humanrobot interaction Full autonomy excludes active humanrobot interactionWhen Technology and Humanity Cross The evergrowing society has made people see technology as some form of necessity. Tracingback its origins, the word “technology” came from the Greek words techne and logos whichmean art and word, respectively. Taking the two words together, technology means a discourseon arts (Buchanan, 2010). It first appeared in the 17th century where the concept was only used totalk about the arts, specifically applied arts. However, as technology progressed, the conceptalso started to have a wider range of meaning where art is no longer the only topic included.Concepts like machine and tools were also attached to the word “technology” which is the morepopular sense of the concept nowadays. The roles of played by technology these days are very crucial not only to a few but also toeveryone. Each person in the society is directly or indirectly affected by technology. Most peoplesurvive their everyday lives with great reliance to the different technological advancementsalready available to the masses. Technology is already an inevitable part of the society. It is with great effort that people were able to achieve such great inventions. It makes life somuch easier and more convenient than ever before. It can clearly be seen from the simplest taskat home to the most complicated ones inside the office or laboratory. Technology has many benefits to humans such as convenience, pleasure, happiness, andcommunication. Almost all activities that humans perform require the assistance of some kind oftechnological advancement. The act of pinpointing a single activity that does not in any wayrequire the use of technology has become very hard. Technology affects us everyday and hasbecome a necessity and no longer a want. In general, technology keeps on progressing due to not only changing times and environment butalso to the ever progressing mind of mankind: brilliance, creativeness and power of the mind.However, it is also important to note that anything too much is bad. The same problem is facedby technology. Problems with technology: ∙ Anything too much is bad. ∙ Various ethical dilemmas involving the use of technological devices. ∙ Misuse or invention to produce bad results. MOST COMMONLY USED TECHNOLOGICAL DEVICES: Television sets According to Kantar Media that in the Philippine, 92% of urban homes and 70 % of rural homes own at least one television set. Ultimate medium for advertisement placements (The Manila Times, 2014). Household with TV set reached 15.135M (Noda, 2012). Majority use this type of device. Television plays a great role in the lives of the people such as platform for advertisements and information dissemination. Paul Gottlieb Nipkow – a German student in the late 1800s. He was successful in his attempt to send images through wires with the aid of a rotatingmetal disk (Nipkow disk). “electric telescope” – 18 lines of resolution. Alan Archibald CampbellSwinton (English scientist) and Boris Rosing (Russian scientist) 1907 created new system of television by using the cathode ray tube in addition to the mechanical scanner system. they gave rise to two types of television systems, namely, mechanical and electronic television.Mobile Phones Filipinos love to use their mobile phones anywhere, anytime. More than half of the Filipino population own at least one mobile phone regardless of type. In 2010, Synovate declared 67 % product ownership in the country. 1 out of 3 Filipinos cannot live without a mobile phone – Ipsos Media Atlas PhilippinesNationwide Urban 20112012 survey. In other words, 30% of the Philippine urbanpopulation nationwide said that mobile phones are necessities in life. Martin Cooper  an American senior engineer at Motorola. On April 3, 1973, he made the world’s first mobile phone call. He called a rival engineer tobrag about his accomplishment. Mobile phone used by Cooper weighed 1.1 kg measured 228.6 x 127 x 44.4 mm 30 minute talk time 10 hours to charge In 1983, Motorola made their 1st commercial mobile phone  Motorola Dyna TAC 8000x Computers and Laptops Not possible for all Filipino families to own at least one computer or laptop because of higher cost. Most profits gained by computer and laptop manufacturers come from offices, business or schools. Growing number of internet users in the Philippines, problems regarding the internet providers. Charles Babbage  19th century English Mathematics professor. Designed the Analytical Engine – used as the basic framework of the computers even until the present time. Released in April 1981 by the Osborne Computer Corporation, the Osborne 1 is consideredto be the first true portable, full featured computer. A typical household owns at least 4 of the following devices (Philstar, 2013) Mobile phone – 89% Smartphone 53% Tablet – 14% Desktop – 39% Laptop or netbooks – 37% Smart TV 4% Facts about Filipinos and their use of gadgets and the internet (Rappler, n.d.) mobile phone subscription is at 119 M. approximately 3.2 hours on mobile and 5.2 hours on desktop daily. Philippine has one of the highest digital populations in the world. 47M active FB accounts. Fastest growing application market in SEA. ROLES PLAYED BY THESE TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS Different technology have different functions and roles. Television mainly as a platform for advertisement and information dissemination. The most used avenue by different advertising companies not only in the Philippines but around the world. Still one of the most used technological devices. Serves as recreational activity and good stress reliever to most families. Good platform for propaganda and advocacies. Good way to bond with one’s family member. Phones communication – then many additional features included. It is an all in one device. Smartphone microcomputer and a telephone. Computer and laptops ∙ although they have functions found in other technological devices, they still offer their ownunique features that make them more attractive. It is just by preference ex wide keyboardthan using a mobile phone. Easy to maneuver because of the mouse, wide screen andseparate keyboards. For the young they allow them to play with comfort andconvenience. These roles have become so essential that more people, specifically Filipinos developed a strong inclination toward technology and its product. ETHICAL DILEMMA FACED BY THESE TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS While it is true that these technological devices are useful and beneficial, the fact remains that there are several dilemmas faced by these “necessities.” 1. Most parents would argue that these devices make their children lazy and unhealthy. 2. Peopleare freely exposed to different things on televisions, mobile phones, laptops or computers. Ethics of responsibility What ought to be allowed? The ethics of responsibility focuses on the positive rather than the negative. The people who arepart of the scientific development ought to let the public know the good in their respectivetechnological contribution/s. In this way, the people will have an idea how the devices ought tobe used in order to maximize their positive results. It is for this reason why there are people whocall for the establishment of ethics of technology  guide people on how technology ought to beused in order to prevent abuse and other unfortunate results. ROBOTICS AND HUMANITY Another great product of the innovative minds. Robots are now widely used. Examples are theservice robots which do specific tasks but their focus is mainly in assisting their masters in theireveryday tasks. Working Definition for Robots (IFR 2012) Robot – is an actuated mechanism programmable in two or more axes with a degree of autonomy, moving within its environment, to perform intended tasks. Autonomy, in this context, is the ability to perform intended tasks based on current state and sensing without human intervention. A service robot is a robot that performs useful tasks for humans or equipment excludingindustrial application. A robot may be classified according to its intended application as anindustrial robot or a service robot. A personal service robot or a service robot for personal use is a service robot used fora noncommercial task, usually by laypersons. Examples are domestic servant robot,automated wheelchair, personal mobility assist robot, pet exercising robot. A professional service robot or a service robot for professional use is a service robotused for a commercial task, usually operated by a properly trained operator. Examples:cleaning robot for public places, delivery robot, firefighting robot, rehabilitation robot,and surgery robot in hospitals.The earliest conception of robots can be traced around 3000 B.C. from the Egyptians. Theirwater clocks used human figurines to strike the hour bells. This mechanical device was built tocarry out a specific physical task regularly. From that time on, different machines were alreadybuilt that displayed the same mechanism and characteristics as the robots in the present. GEORGE DEVOL An American inventor known for developing Unimate, the first material handling robot employed in industrial production work. Roles played by Robotics Ease the workload of mankind Make life more efficient and less stressful Perform complicated activities Pleasure, entertainment in parks or exhibits Toys, child friendly Used in movies ISAAC ASIMOV American writer and professor of Biochemistry at Boston University. formulated the laws of robot in the 1940s. “Three Laws of Robotics” 1. A robot may not injure a human being or through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. 2. A robot must obey orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law 3. A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with theFirst or Second Law. ETHICAL DILEMMA/S FACED BY ROBOTICS 1. Safety Who should be held accountable if someone’s safety is compromised by a robot Who should be blamed, the robot, the agent using the robot, or the maker/inventor of the robot? It is important to know who should be blamed and who should be held responsible if such thing happens. 2. Emotional Component ∙ It is not completely impossible for robots to develop emotions. In the field of robotics, there are so called partial autonomy and full autonomy. Partial autonomyincludes active humanrobot interaction while full autonomy excludes active human robotinteraction. In other words, a robot with full autonomy can perform actions or activities evenwithout a master telling it what should be done or what should be performed next (IFR, 2012).Using Asimov’s laws for robots, it can be concluded that robots are ethical but only if theystrictly follow the laws specified. Notwithstanding the convenience and valuable characteristics of the different technologicaladvancements, there are still some problems being encountered. These problems are ethical innature that involve not only the machine but also mankind. It is now impossible for technologyand humanity not to cross paths because as some would argue, technology has become anecessity for people. At the end of the day, ethics should be enforced in the field of technologyso as to ensure the safety and morality of these devices to people. When Technology andHumanity Cross? The evergrowing society has made people seetechnology as some form of necessity.The word “technology” came from the Greekwords techne means art and logos means wordTaking the two words together, Technologymeans discourse on arts (Buchanan, 2010).Concepts like machine and tools were alsoattached to the word “technology” which is themore popular sense of the concept nowadaysThe roles play by technology these days are very crucial not only to a few but also to everyone. Each person in the society is directly orindirectly affected by technology whetherhe wills it or not. In fact, most people are survived theireveryday lives with great reliance to thedifferent technological advancementsalready available to the masses. These days enjoys such fame and glorybecause of the many different benefits itbrings to mankind. Some would even say that is because ofthe different leisure activities thattechnology can offer to people. At present, people work very hard inorder to save money to buy these“necessities” while in the past, peopleonly used their money for the thingsthat would help them survive like food ,housing, and clothing. In effect, anythingoutside categories was considered aluxury. However, that is no longer the case atpresent In general, technology keeps on progressing due to not only the changing times and environment but also to the Ever progressing mind of mankind. It wouldnot possible for all these technologicaladvancements to exist if it where not for thebrilliant, creativeness, and power of themind. Although it has been very helpful to people,it is still not immune to criticisms andbacklash.Usually, different problems arise wheneither the technological device availableis…Misused it was invented to producepeople bad result. People who aware ofpossible danger of use or misuse oftechnology are not keeping still.Television Sets, Mobile Phones, Computers, andHumanityMost popular and most commonly used types of devicesacross all the age groups. These are the “celebrities” in thefield of technology:1. Television sets,2. mobile phones, and3. computers .1. TELEVISIONAccording to Kantar Media, one of the mosttrusted television audience measurementsproviders, in the Philippines, 92 percent of urbanhomes and 70 percent of rural homes own at leastone television set.ultimate medium for advertisementreports show that in the Philippines, the currentcount of household is the Philippines withtelevision set already is already reached 15.135million and television plays get role in the lives ofthe peopleAlmost Filipinos use this particular type of deviceTELEVISION Paul Gottlieb Nipkow, a German student, discoveredthe “electric telescope”, he was successful in his attemptto send images through wires with the aid of a“rotating metal disk”. Alan Archibald CampbellSwinton – English scientist Boris Rosing – Russian scientist These two scientist created a new system of televisionby using the “cathode ray tube”. This success story gave rise to two types of televisionsystems which are the mechanical and electronictelevision2. MOBILE PHONESuse for different purposes other thancommunication.In 2010,global research agency Synovateconducted a survey and declared 67 percentproduct ownership in the country In fact, it was also claimed that mobile phonesare considered a musthave among youngpeople. (ABSCBN News,2010)Proved that Filipinos really love to use theirmobile phones.MOBILE PHONESIPSOS MEDIA ATLAS PHILIPPINES NATIONWIDEURBAN (20112012) survey results showed thatone (1) in every in every three Filipinos cannotlive without mobile phones.In other words, 30 percent of the Philippineurban population nationwide said that mobilephones are “necessities in life”.Philippine streets are full of people using theirmobile phones.Not only this, there are some Filipinos who evenown more than one mobile phone.MOBILE PHONESMartin Copper, a senior engineer at Motorola,made the worlds first mobile phone callThe mobile phone used by Copper weighed 1.1kg and measured 228.6 X 127 X 44.4 mm, adevice capable of 30minute talk time, & it took10 hrs to chargeMOTOROLA made the FIRST commercial mobilephone to the public known as MOTOROLADynaTAC 8000X3. COMPUTERS & LAPTOPSalso become part of many of the Filipinohouseholdin fact, most of the profits gained by thecomputer and laptop manufacturers come fromoffices, businesses, or schools where suchdevices have become part of their necessitieshowever, the number of computers or laptopssold per year may not be as high as the numberof mobile phones and television sets.COMPUTERS & LAPTOPSCHARLES BABBAGE, an English Mathematics professorwho designed the ANALYTICAL ENGINE which wasused as the basic framework of the computers evenuntil the present. The first true portable computer released on April,1981 called the OSBORNE IA typical household owns at least four of the followingdevices; a mobile phone (89%), smartphone (53%), tablet (14%),desktop (39%), laptop or netbooks (37%), and smart TV(4%) (Philstar, 2013).These data prove the deepseated fascination ofFilipinos to different technological devices. Here are some facts about Filipinos about their use ofgadgets and the Internet: Mobile phone subscription is at 119 million. Filipinos spend approximately 3.2 hours on mobile and 5.2 hours on desktop daily. Currently, the Philippines has one of the highest digital populations in the world. There are now 47 million active Facebook accounts in the Philippines. The Philippines is the fastestgrowing application market in Southeast Asia.Roles Played by These TechnologicalAdvancementsTelevisions sets, mobile phones, and computers orlaptops all have different functions and roles playedin the lives of the people, although some may be alittle similar. Television is mainly used as a platform foradvertisements and information dissemination,serves as recreational activity and good stressreliever, also a good platform for differentpropaganda and advocacies, good way to bond withone’s familyRoles Played by These TechnologicalAdvancementsMobile phones primarily used forcommunication which offers services liketexting & calling, used to surf the Internet andto take pictures, it includes apps like musicplayer, calendar, radio, television and photoeditorIt was known to be the allinone deviceRoles Played by These TechnologicalAdvancementsComputers & laptops can be used to surf theinternet and communicate, it has widekeyboard, easier to manuever, use to palydifferent computer gamesEthical Dilemma Faced by these TechnologicalAdvancements First, parents argue that these devices make their childrenbecome lazy and unhealthyo Skipping their mealso Lack of exerciseo Unaware of the timeo People who are engrossed with these device easily get mad orannoyed. They highly experience alienation because they are lack ofsocialization, furthermore some people will argue aboutthis matter that by using this advancement it will bringthem closer but the reality is, it is just virtually closer butnot physically or personally.Ethical Dilemma Faced by these TechnologicalAdvancements Second, moral dilemmao People, especially children who’s highly experiencing thisdilemma. They’re the one who are not capable yet ofrationally deciding for themselves what is right and wrong.o It happens because of the availability and easy access todifferent websites without restrictions even it is notsuitable for their age.o As we go deeper, it can be said that these reasons makesuch devices somewhat unethical because they bringundesirable consequences to people.o However, it can also be argued that it is not the fault ofthe technological devices but the agent using them or theones making them. Responsibility in the sense of being “accountable for” and“accountable to” is very appropriate to the ethics of technology Each person MUST indicate the PRIORITIES, VALUES, NORMSand PRINCIPLES that’s constitute the grounds for one’s actionsand define one’s contribution to the scientifictechnologicalevent. Ethics of Responsibility – focuses on the positive rather than thenegative. People who are part of the scientific development ought to letthe public know the good in their respective technologicalcontribution/s. In this way, the people will be sufficiently aware of what to doand what not to do.Ethical Dilemma Faced by these TechnologicalAdvancementsRobotics and HumanityROBOT another great product of the innovative minds of thepeople. an actuated mechanism programmable in two or moreaxes with a degree of autonomy, moving within itsenvironment, to perform intended task.International Federation of Robotics (IFR) and UnitedNations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) made it their task to formulate a working definition forservice robots. A preliminary extract of the relevantdefinition is (IFR, 2012):Kinds of Robot Service Robot that performs useful tasks for humans orequipment excluding industrial automation application.NOTE: it can be classified according to its intended applicationas an industrial or service robot. Personal service robot or service robot for personal use – aservice robot used for noncommercial task, usually bylaypersons. Professional service robot or Service robot for professional use– a service robot used for commercial task, usually operated by a property trained operator.Germany – one of the first countries to develop service robots.German Federal Ministry of Education andResearch’s “Service Robotics Innovation LeadInitiative,” it sponsored a collaborative projectcalled DISIRE (Deutsche ServicerobotikInitiativeGermany Service Robotics Initiative)which was launched on Oct 1, 2005.DESIRE’s Objective To achieve a technological edge toward attaining keyfunctions and components that are suited for everydayuse. To create a reference architecture for mobilemanipulation. To promote the convergence of technologies throughintegrations into a common technology platform To conduct precompetition research and developmentactivities for new products and technology transfer instartup enterprises in the field of service robotics.Some of the expected work to be performedby DESIRE Clear up the kitchen table Fill the dishwasher Clear up the this roomThe earliest conception of robots can be traced around3000 B.C. from the Egyptians. However, the earliest robot as people know them werecreated in the early 1950’s by George Devol. “Unimate”was his first invention from the word “UniversalAutomation.”Roles Played by RoboticsRobots play different roles not only in the lives of thepeople but also in the society as a whole.They are primarily used to ease the workload of mankind.They were invented to make life more efficient and lessstressful. On one hand, they perform complicated activities whichhuman being are incapable of doing.There are also robots which are made for pleasure, thereare also some robots which were made to serve as toys.Other examples of robots are those which can be seen inmovies.Set of Rules of RobotsThis laws were formulated by Isaac Asimov back in the 1940’s, when hewas thinking of the ethical consequences of robots.Law One: A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.Law Two: A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.Law Three: A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.Ethical Dilemma/s Faced by Robotics One of the dilemmas faced by robots is SAFETY. Another ethical dilemma faced by robots is theEMMOTIONAL COMPONENT.In the field of robotics, there are the socalled partialautonomy and full autonomy. Partial Autonomy includes active human robotinteraction. Full Autonomy excludes active humanrobot interaction.when technology and humanitycrossokay so let's talk about technology andas well as let's talk abouthumanityso what will happen if we will mergetechnology and humanity so let's try toto embrace that idea for us tounderstand the effects of technology tohumanityokay so i hope you are all excited tolistento this video or okay so theevergrowing society has made peoplehas made us see technologyas a form of a necessitybecause we are on we are influenced by alot of things we acquire a lot of thingsand we really think that technologytechnology is the best part of usokay so technology comes from the greekworddigni and logossoit means which means art and word someaning means a discourse on arts we aretalking about here arts we are talkingabout how to improve thingsso that's the real meaning of technologyit comes from the greekwords tiknae and logos which means adiscourse on arts howeverbecause of the evergrowing societybecause of the conceptwe now have a wider range ofunderstanding what is technology allaboutso because of the evergrowing societytechnology does not only meana discourse on arts we also include thetechnologylike machinetools equipmentthose are parts of technologyright so technology is not only limitedto artsit is also focused with the idea ofinventing something some machinessome toolsto create something and that's the ideaof technologyso take noteeach personwe arereally affected by technology we areinfluenced by technology directly orindirectlyokay they all agree with me that we areaffected by technology so what istrending what is viral what is going onaround us we are also influenced by withthose thingsso that's how technology and humanitycross because we are affected by thethings that is happening around usokay even if we don't like it or nottechnology is possiblyuh directly or indirectlyaffecting usokay so in factmost people would say that technologyplays a greater impact to their livesthey always believe that technologyis a necessityit is not a want it is a need it is anecessity nowadaysso that is the idea of technology andhow it molded us as a personokay sowe can't deny that technologybecause of technology because of theinvention the experimentationwe come up with this idea with thesethingsright perfect example of technology isthe invention of computers laptopsright so without the invention of thosethingswe will not go this far we will not beable to use that we will not be able tobecome efficient and that is part oftechnology so in short technology wecan't deny that technology is already aninevitable part of the society and forme that is trueokay sotechnology these daysgives enjoymentgives pleasure to usright for me i am also enjoying thethethe impact of technology like i watchyoutube i've also watched tiktok funnytik tokright so it gives me pleasure andbecause of technologyit rises g it gives us a lot of impactsa positive impact okay so some would saythat it does not only give conveniencebut also it gives pleasure and happinessbecause of technologyandi think as what you've observednowuh mostly teenagers millennialgeneration they are so equipped withtechnology because a lot of benefits italso gives a lot ofservicesand it makes our lives very convenientbecause of technology and for me that isa factokay soso it's it's really impossible for us nonot to embrace technologyokay for example this online learningso how can you reach out to yourstudents without the facetofaceinteraction so the only way for you toto teach students is to embrace the ideaof technology by doing something likethis but now i am teaching worldwidebecause it is public so this is this ismy new trend this ismy way of embracing the idea oftechnologyokay so without those idea how how couldi teach my studentswithout moodle without using googleclassroom how could i teach my studentsso let's that's that is the positive wayof embracing technologyokayso at presentpeople are trying to save money just tobuy this kind of technologies we aresaving a lot of money just to buylaptop just to buy computer just to buya smartphone just to catch up with thetrend with the technology that we are inokaycompared to the customers they are notused to thatthey just they save moneyfor for just three main purpose toprovide food clothing and shelterbut now we buy a lot of technologiesbecause we want to catch up with a lotof thingsand that's howtechnology and humanity crossokay that's how we merge the impact oftechnology to humanityokay that's why we can't blame ouryoungsters no we can't blame them why weare why they are so attached withtechnologies because they are born to itright so they are used to it they are sogood with it okay so that's that's howwe embrace the idea of technologyokay sotechnologyis changing over timeand as part of the millennial generationi am also trying to catch up withtechnology because it keeps on changingour environment is changingokay sotechnology wouldn't be possible withoutthe brilliance of our of mankind withoutthe brilliance of those people whoinvented this kind of technologies andyes it made our lives easier it makes usvery efficientit makes us very good inin dealing with with this kind oftechnology and for me that's really agood thingbut too much of everything is also badright too much of everything is badsothe same problem is faced by technologyeven if technology gives us a lot ofbeneficial things but sometimes there'sthere are also some negative impact oftechnology so we will try to discussthat to discuss that oneokay toto embrace ourselves what are thenegative in fact in the impacts oftechnology aside from dealing with thepositive impact let's talk about thenegative impact of technology becausethe technology also faces a lot ofethical dilemma okay dilemma if they aredoing the right thing orif they are doing the wrong thing solet's try to to classify the right andthe wrong thing in dealing with our owntechnologyokay so in this discussion we will talkabout several technological advancementor devicesokay that were properly introduced by useven up to this dayokay i know you are all familiar withthat number one is we've got televisionmobile phones computers laptopokay i know that almost all householdshere in the philippines we are we we dohave television rightwe catch up information we watch tvsuh we we also have mobile phoneswe have smartphones just to catch upwith the technologiesandsome would say that having all of thosethings is a necessityokay it becomes a necessity because ofthe evergrowing societyokay so people all over the worlduse this technologies just to accomplishdifferent purposeslike like television you watch tv tvbecause you want to gain informationyou use your smartphones or mobilephones because you want to call someoneor text someone or you want to google orsearch someone so now it's very easy tocatch up with people or you want tovideo call it's very easy because oftechnology andit's a good thing because you can easilytalk to your loved onessothose are the several technologicaldevices that were implemented by tohumanity to help mankindmobile phones before mobile phones weare just using that fortexting or calling but now there's a lotof services offered we do havesmartphoneyou can watch tv we do havevideo hall or the facebookso we've got a lot of things because ofthe evergrowing society because of thechanging environment so we really try tocatch upokay sothose arethose are the things that reallythat really molded us to what we are nowbecause of the influence of a lot ofthingsand what we see on tv or what we hear onourwhat we see on our mobile phones tv oranything we just we also we are alsoinfluenced by it what is trending we arealso influenced by it what others aredoing we're also influenced by itokay so that's how wethat's how we engross ourselves totechnology and sometimes technologyreally becomes a part of our liveswherever we go whatever we are doingwe can't live without our mobile phonesright you can'tyou can't live a day without using yourmobile phones it becomes part of usandand i am also guilty of that because ikept onlooking at my phoneseven if nobody's texting me i just wantto to to look at it okay so just tryingto to see what is trending what is viralso just or just to get some informationso those are the things that reallymolded me or that really taught me howtechnology influences the way i thinkthe way i behave and the way i thinkabout life okay solastly is the computer or laptopsokay soi do have my own laptop and i believeyou also have that one because of youronline learningokay soit is a good thing it is very beneficialfor us nowokay we do a lot of thingswe can buy laptop anywhere so it's agood thingokay so but sometimes because of thetransition because of the transition thechanging environment are a lot ofservices offered in the laptop we try toto buy a new one a new one just tokeep us updated on what is really goingon with with our societywe are looking forfor more applications we are looking formore more updated laptops right everynow and then so technology is a endingprocess it comes and it goesright soif you keep on for me if if i keep onrunning on technology i can't go aftertechnology every now and thenokay so it really depends on usbecause technology we can't stoptechnologybut as long as you know your limitationsas long as you know what is good for youwhat is what is a necessity for you so ithink it's a good thing for you to thinkabout it before buying a lot of thingsbecause technology is a very fastpacedenvironmentokay so we can deny that we areinfluenced by a lot of thingstelevisions what we see on tvmobile phones the computer the laptopthe people around you we areall influenced and those people thosethings really played uh with the role orthe impact of our livesokay people i keep oni keep on buying new thingsbecausewe are so engrossed with our technologyright because we are so attached with somany so many things that is going onaround us and people are reallyinfluenced by a lot of thingslike what you see or hear on tvwhat you see on googlewhat you see on tik tok so there's a lotof things happening on social media andsocial media platforms are allwe are all part of the everchanginggrowing societyokay soactually the the technology is a verygoodthing that we are experiencing right nowwe are so equipped with that and peopleare trying to catch up with that okay sothis this are the reasons why people areso attached with technology all over theworldall over the world people are using aladder of technologyandthe more you are so into technology themore you are so equipped withunderstanding what iswhat is the best thing to do withtechnologythe invention the experimentationit's a good thing because it is the uhthe the output of the brilliant mind ofthe brilliant mind of mankindokay solet's just put some just put somelimitations when usingall our technology that's notsometimes we are influenced by it yeshumanity and technologywhen we try to combine it all togetheryes we are influenced by it that's whywe are changing as long as thetechnology is changing we are alsochanging trying to catch up with themokay trying to catch up with technologyandwe are trying to be better and betterokay so there is no ending process whenit comes to technologyokay so thank you so much for watchingthank you so much for subscribing to mychannel okay so i will be postinganother video this is our lesson six somy next video blogs i'll be talkingabout the ethical dilemma of thistechnological advancement this is a verylong discussion that's why i've decidedto cut it cut it out to two so i will beposting lesson 6.1 the ethical dilemmaof this technological advancement okayso we should always put limitations towhatever technologies when technologyand humanity cross so firstbefore we are going to have this batchof videos i havethought about that we need to put someexpectation setting firstokay so by the end of this batch ofvideos um what willwhat are you expected to to learn shallwe sayso at the end of this batch of videosthis lesson shall we sayyou must be able toknow number one illustrate the differenttechnological advancementsin society especially in the setting ofthe philippines okaynumber two discuss the development ofthe science and technologyin the philippines specifically anddiscuss the effects of the interplaybetween the technology and humanitythrough the dilemmas that they faceokay so this will be our expectationsetting before the fact thatthe start of this batch of videos okayso expect to learn these thingsokay guys um before we're going to haveourum deep and thorough okay discussionabout all the topics this video will beanyways will serve as an introductoryone okayand then we'll we'll try to recall allthe things that we have um talked aboutin the very first videossince we have talked about more aboutscience eudaimonia and suchum we need to recall what technology isfirst so definition of technology iwould just need to go back to thisto this um words where the wordtechnology came fromokay it came from the word again techneand logosokay technical logos so we have talkedabout this in the very first videoand um according to buchanan way back in2010 thisis a discourse on art okay technology isjust a discourseokay it's a discourse on artokay when you talk about technology youwill think about all sorts of thingsmachines machinery factoryapplication of science you know if youcan remember in our first videotechnology is the application okay thedirectapplication of science okayso concepts like machines and toolswere also attached to the world wordtechnologyright so that's when you talk abouttechnology it's a discourse of artit's the application of science okay itcame from the wordstechnique and logos so in one way oranotherif you will believe in me okay if youwill try to think of thiseach person in society including you andme okayis directly or indirectly affected bytechnology whetherwe um society each of ushe or she was it or not okayso most people survive their everydaylives with great relianceto the difference the differenttechnological advancementsare already available in the masses soumespecially in these times we're in thissituation thatum like everything we need to connecteven though we don't need to bethere physically right given this thesituation right nowso we are um i think we can all agreethatwe have a highly and great reliance ontechnology nowadaysso with this um we can see that thatthat technology plays a very vital roleso um in that in that sense technologyis already an inevitable partof society so it cannot be can it can'tgo away it'sit's really a big part now of societyokay so with this with this in mind sothere's just one question to ponderokay with that in mind it's nowtechnology how um in your ownperspectivein your own understanding shall we sayis technology nowadaysa necessity or a wantmaybe you can you can ponder that amoment or twookay so what was your answer is it anecessitya need or just a wantokay so um i think most of you if notallwill really answer it's a necessity andindeed it is truethat it is indeed a necessity nowadayssowith this what does technology offer usokay among others they're just here arejustfour um that technology can offer usokay just four out of the very many manyfirst is convenience the convenience isone convenience andsay maps just one simple examplein your gadgets there are maps therein in traveling transportationtechnology is there machinesright factories and everything actuallyin our societyokay technology offers conveniencenumber twotechnology offers pleasure entertainmentokay in our smartphones right nowtelevisionsokay laptops cinemas they're allpart of technology okay and they offeruspleasure that is in a senseentertainmentthey offer also happiness likewiseconnected to pleasure and also it it iteases us when it comes to communicationokay um telephones nowadays there areno more or less telephones there aremore cell phones thantelephones so it gives us it offers usum communication even though in theinternetyou know me right now talking in frontof you this is communicationand technology offers me to lecture onyouabout this through the internet throughyoutube shall we sayokay so that's that's that's whattechnology offerssome of what a lot the technology offersokay so these are just the highlights ofwhat technologycan offer to us but take note pleasetake note rememberthat anything too bad anything too muchratheris bad okay again let me repeat thatanything too muchis bad um others say that umtoo much of everything is a bad thingall right too much of everything is abad thing and that's indeedtrue various ethical dilemmas involvingthe use of technological devices sothere are of course someethical issues in every okay in everytechnological device that we useso we must need to you need to knowthat know them okay in order for us tobe awareokay of what those dilemmas are and alsothe misuse orinvention to produce bad results so ofcourse technology is there for usto to aid us not or to do good for usnot the opposite or the other way aroundokayso these are the just simple remindersokay againeverything or too much of everything isa bad thing soand also uh connected with that is theethical dynamicsokay so actually um this is just anintroduction inductory video like i saidum next batch in our video we're goingto talk abouttelevision sets mobile phones computersand humanitytogether with computers we want to talkabout laptopsokay now um this is our ourshall we say table of contents our batchof videos that we'll be creatingfor this one technology and humanitycrossfirst we're going to talk abouttechnology or rather television ratherand then we're going to follow it upwith mobile phones and then computersand laptopsand um this will be one video okaytelevision mobile phones and computersand laptop laptopsum the ethical dilemmas involving thesethings above areor is going to be another video or we'llsee we'll see in the futurewhat can we do also we need to take careand talk about robotics and humanity andafter that we're going to talk about theethical dilemmas faced byrobotics okay so this will be ourlike i said that our table of contentsour course guideas far as when technology and humanitycrossokay so we're going to have i'm going tocreate likeum i don't know um maybe three to fourthree to four videos um regarding thesetopics belowwhen technology and humanity crossso the objective of this lesson fortodayis know the different technologicaladvancementin society discuss the development ofscience and technology in thephilippines and the last onei will discuss the effects of theinterplay between technology andhumanitythrough the dilemmas database okay sonow we will talk about television setsmobile phones computers andhumanity okayit was specified because this uh pieceof technologyis used no allover the world okay to accomplishdifferent purposes okay sowe will go through their historytv sets the mobile phones the computersokayso first is we will go to televisionit is a product of different experimentsby various people okay sookayand boris rosin their experiments deeprice two taxi television system namelythe mechanical and the electronictelevisionokay so i normally mechanicallymechanicallythey first developed the mechanicaltelevision and then later onelectricity they also developed anelected electronic version of thetelevisionokay so on april 3 1973martin cooper a senior engineer atmotorolamade the world first mobile phone callokay so 1973 asymmetrical bird and thenin 1983motorola made their first commercialmobile phone available in the publicokay so it was known as the motorola8000 x okay so i don't knowcharles babbage who designed theanalyticalengine which was used as the basicframework of the computerseven until the present time this is justimagingbasic frameworksokay so that is amazinghow our technology is uh advancingthoughevery year so just imaginewas so big that it could occupy wholefloors of the building oh my god no justimagine our whole floors it's a floridabuildingissan computer okaynextis so big that it occupiedone whole building no one whole floorsome example firstso the first true portable computer wasreleasedin april 1981 it was called the os boardonewhatthe evolution of laptops continued untilthe expression timewhere various design and models arealready available okay so the currentevolution of a laptopso role play by this technologicaladvanced advancementmobile phone and televisionso television is mainly used on platformfor advertisement and informationdissemination okayis a good platform for differentpropagandas and advocaciesokay of course mobile phones areprimarily used for communicationso people use their mobile phones toserve the internet and to take picturesmore than to text or to call peopleactually that's the reality now so otherapplications include music playercalendar radio television and photoeditoramong others okay so imagine the classas the time goes by house are us themobile phonesis uh um being advanced noso we uh personal computers and laptopscan be used to serve the internetand communicate and the availability ofa mouse or touchpad made these twotechnological devices easier to maneuverthan the mobile phones of coursewhen you type know when you when youtype and communicate through emailsand then later on in 1950s in 1960s1970si have i've seen this 1960s but ofcourseso 1980s 1990s and the 2000sand then later onokay so television okayso lyon timeline on mobile phones okayno we have talked about this the 1983motorola died attackso this is the one and then later onfrom 2006 up to the present phonemaspani pistolmobile phones okay sothis is the evolution of a computerdesign pedal in one brand only no itdoesn't meanit's already 20 21. okay sookay of course it's much more expensiveokay so now we will we have already seenthe historicwhat is uh the timeline of thistechnology that uhhub helped us to our everyday task nonow we will talk about the ethicaldilemma phase by this technologicaladvancement so i don't knowof course not all is good no no now wewill talk about ethical dilemmasso people who are fixated on thistechnological advancement starts atend the day by using such devicesand raise your hand becauseso it causes them to become reclusiveand alienating themselves from otherpeoplesoactually actuallywe can uh love with it but later onyou will realize what is really theanode um thethe effect of this especially no toyoung onesno that is uh the mind is stilldevelopingbecause our childhood isother other children okay soand then you know we were talking aboutchildren who are not capable yet ofrationally deciding for themselveswhat is right or wrong are freelyexposed to different things ontelevisionmobile phones laptops or computers soyeahthat's what i am pointing out noso this will be ourwhat is that we what that willmake up what we are today you know inour adult lifeno so sonow um ethical dilemma now we will talkabout robotics and humanities noactually this is one of um one of theethical dilemmas this is part of theethicaldilemma robotics no roboticsum we make we are making technology morehumanlikeso that is robotics so a robot we willtalk what is a robotin the first place so a robot is anactuated mechanismprogrammable in two or more access witha degree of autonomyno moving with this within thisenvironmentto perform intended taskswhat does it mean it means independencerobot is a robot that performs uh usefultasks for humans or equipmentexcluding industrial automationapplicationokay so a personal service robot or aservice robot for personal useis a service robot used for anoncommercial pass usually by laypersons okayi love you my personal service roboti forgot the name of the toyrobot can interact with you like umlike a pet no so a professional servicerobot isor a service robot for a professionaluseis a service robot used for a commercialtask usually operated by properlytrainedoperator okay so these are uhthe this is these are the present robotthat we have today so veronarobotnes hospitalokay so the it cannot send the thingsto room by rooms no it ain't nurseslike this okay so there are robots ithink this isthis is functional alreadyalso so at all uh another is uhhumongousamong heavy paracels or deliveryand then uh in drawing no supportactually um this manga robots onartificial intelligence okay soatom rolls the play by the robotics sothey are primarily used to ease theworkload of mankindokay so of course uh robotsa to the professionals okayso they were invented to make life moreefficient and less stressfulperform activities and and entertainpeoplemade to serve as toysso robots also have their own sets ofrules and characteristics that definewhat a good robot isokayso low one a robot may not inquire ahuman being or truein action allow a human being to come toherlotu a robot must obey the orders givenby a manbeings accept where such orders wouldconflict with the first lawlottery a robot must protect its ownexistenceas long as the such protection does notconflict with the firstor second law solaws of robotics which isrobotics class2004 filmtitle i robot see will smithokay so you actually i think that you ithink that you have alreadyseen this uh this movieso assignment no class i think youshould look uhuh look at the this um film againand of course uhthen you can see thisand then depictedand what will happen in the future okayso that will have that will janfor example the future future machadotechnology what will happen to our dailyliveswhen uh technology is really thatadvancedokay so assignments and yogaokay so now we will talk about ethicaldilemmas i'm going to send you this is apart ofethical eurobotics part of my ethicaldilemma first is the safetyso for example who should beheld accountable if someone safety iscompromised by the robot for examplethe global robotanother is emotional component okaywhat if robots become sentient shouldthey be grantedrobot rights okay should theyhave their own sets of rights to beupheld respected and protected by humansso what does it meanchildren grandchildren great yourchildren nobut for now i don't knowokay so now that will be the endof the lesson 2.4 so now these are thereflecting questions thatyou need to ask yourself okay firstdo people really need technology intheir livesis it really a necessity okaysecond should be there andethics of technology so underbank ethicsWhy the Future Doesn't Need UsOur most powerful 21stcentury technologies—robotics, genetic engineering, and nanotech—are threatening to make humans an endangered species.FROM THE MOMENT I became involved in the creation of new technologies, their ethical dimensions have concerned me, but it was only in the autumn of 1998 that I became anxiously aware of how great are the dangers facing us in the 21st century. I can date the onset of my unease to the day I met Ray Kurzweil, the deservedly famous inventor of the first reading machine for the blind and many other amazing things.Ray and I were both speakers at George Gilder's Telecosm conference, and I encountered him by chance in the bar of the hotel after both our sessions were over. I was sitting with John Searle, a Berkeley philosopher who studies consciousness. While we were talking, Ray approached and a conversation began, the subject of which haunts me to this day.I had missed Ray's talk and the subsequent panel that Ray and John had been on, and they now picked right up where they'd left off, with Ray saying that the rate of improvement of technology was going to accelerate and that we were going to become robots or fuse with robots or something like that, and John countering that this couldn't happen, because the robots couldn't be conscious.While I had heard such talk before, I had always felt sentient robots were in the realm of science fiction. But now, from someone I respected, I was hearing a strong argument that they were a nearterm possibility. I was taken aback, especially given Ray's proven ability to imagine and create the future. I already knew that new technologies like genetic engineering and nanotechnology were giving us the power to remake the world, but a realistic and imminent scenario for intelligent robots surprised me.It's easy to get jaded about such breakthroughs. We hear in the news almost every day of some kind of technological or scientific advance. Yet this was no ordinary prediction. In the hotel bar, Ray gave me a partial preprint of his thenforthcoming book The Age of Spiritual Machines, which outlined a utopia he foresaw—one in which humans gained near immortality by becoming one with robotic technology. On reading it, my sense of unease only intensified; I felt sure he had to be understating the dangers, understating the probability of a bad outcome along this path.I found myself most troubled by a passage detailing a dystopian scenario:The New Luddite ChallengeFirst let us postulate that the computer scientists succeed in developing intelligent machines that can do all things better than human beings can do them. In that case presumably all work will be done by vast, highly organized systems of machines and no human effort will be necessary. Either of two cases might occur. The machines might be permitted to make all of their own decisions without human oversight, or else human control over the machines might be retained.If the machines are permitted to make all their own decisions, we can't make any conjectures as to the results, because it is impossible to guess how such machines might behave. We only point out that the fate of the human race would be at the mercy of the machines. It might be argued that the human race would never be foolish enough to hand over all the power to the machines. But we are suggesting neither that the human race would voluntarily turn power over to the machines nor that the machines would willfully seize power. What we do suggest is that the human race might easily permit itself to drift into a position of such dependence on the machines that it would have no practical choice but to accept all of the machines' decisions. As society and the problems that face it become more and more complex and machines become more and more intelligent, people will let machines make more of their decisions for them, simply because machinemade decisions will bring better results than manmade ones. Eventually a stage may be reached at which the decisions necessary to keep the system running will be so complex that human beings will be incapable of making them intelligently. At that stage the machines will be in effective control. People won't be able to just turn the machines off, because they will be so dependent on them that turning them off would amount to suicide.On the other hand it is possible that human control over the machines may be retained. In that case the average man may have control over certain private machines of his own, such as his car or his personal computer, but control over large systems of machines will be in the hands of a tiny elite—just as it is today, but with two differences. Due to improved techniques the elite will have greater control over the masses; and because human work will no longer be necessary the masses will be superfluous, a useless burden on the system. If the elite is ruthless they may simply decide to exterminate the mass of humanity. If they are humane they may use propaganda or other psychological or biological techniques to reduce the birth rate until the mass of humanity becomes extinct, leaving the world to the elite. Or, if the elite consists of softhearted liberals, they may decide to play the role of good shepherds to the rest of the human race. They will see to it that everyone's physical needs are satisfied, that all children are raised under psychologically hygienic conditions, that everyone has a wholesome hobby to keep him busy, and that anyone who may become dissatisfied undergoes “treatment” to cure his “problem.” Of course, life will be so purposeless that people will have to be biologically or psychologically engineered either to remove their need for the power process or make them “sublimate” their drive for power into some harmless hobby. These engineered human beings may be happy in such a society, but they will most certainly not be free. They will have been reduced to the status of domestic animals. 1In the book, you don't discover until you turn the page that the author of this passage is Theodore Kaczynski—the Unabomber. I am no apologist for Kaczynski. His bombs killed three people during a 17year terror campaign and wounded many others. One of his bombs gravely injured my friend David Gelernter, one of the most brilliant and visionary computer scientists of our time. Like many of my colleagues, I felt that I could easily have been the Unabomber's next target.Kaczynski's actions were murderous and, in my view, criminally insane. He is clearly a Luddite, but simply saying this does not dismiss his argument; as difficult as it is for me to acknowledge, I saw some merit in the reasoning in this single passage. I felt compelled to confront it.Kaczynski's dystopian vision describes unintended consequences, a wellknown problem with the design and use of technology, and one that is clearly related to Murphy's law—“Anything that can go wrong, will.” (Actually, this is Finagle's law, which in itself shows that Finagle was right.) Our overuse of antibiotics has led to what may be the biggest such problem so far: the emergence of antibioticresistant and much more dangerous bacteria. Similar things happened when attempts to eliminate malarial mosquitoes using DDT caused them to acquire DDT resistance; malarial parasites likewise acquired multidrugresistant genes. 2The cause of many such surprises seems clear: The systems involved are complex, involving interaction among and feedback between many parts. Any changes to such a system will cascade in ways that are difficult to predict; this is especially true when human actions are involved.I started showing friends the Kaczynski quote from The Age of Spiritual Machines; I would hand them Kurzweil's book, let them read the quote, and then watch their reaction as they discovered who had written it. At around the same time, I found Hans Moravec's book Robot: Mere Machine to Transcendent Mind. Moravec is one of the leaders in robotics research, and was a founder of the world's largest robotics research program, at Carnegie Mellon University. Robot gave me more material to try out on my friends—material surprisingly supportive of Kaczynski's argument. For example:The Short Run (Early 2000s)Biological species almost never survive encounters with superior competitors. Ten million years ago, South and North America were separated by a sunken Panama isthmus. South America, like Australia today, was populated by marsupial mammals, including pouched equivalents of rats, deers, and tigers. When the isthmus connecting North and South America rose, it took only a few thousand years for the northern placental species, with slightly more effective metabolisms and reproductive and nervous systems, to displace and eliminate almost all the southern marsupials.In a completely free marketplace, superior robots would surely affect humans as North American placentals affected South American marsupials (and as humans have affected countless species). Robotic industries would compete vigorously among themselves for matter, energy, and space, incidentally driving their price beyond human reach. Unable to afford the necessities of life, biological humans would be squeezed out of existence.There is probably some breathing room, because we do not live in a completely free marketplace. Government coerces nonmarket behavior, especially by collecting taxes. Judiciously applied, governmental coercion could support human populations in high style on the fruits of robot labor, perhaps for a long while.A textbook dystopia—and Moravec is just getting wound up. He goes on to discuss how our main job in the 21st century will be “ensuring continued cooperation from the robot industries” by passing laws decreeing that they be “nice,” and to describe how seriously dangerous a human can be “once transformed into an unbounded superintelligent robot.” 3 Moravec's view is that the robots will eventually succeed us—that humans clearly face extinction.I decided it was time to talk to my friend Danny Hillis. Danny became famous as the cofounder of Thinking Machines Corporation, which built a very powerful parallel supercomputer. Despite my current job title of Chief Scientist at Sun Microsystems, I am more a computer architect than a scientist, and I respect Danny's knowledge of the information and physical sciences more than that of any other single person I know. Danny is also a highly regarded futurist who thinks longterm—four years ago he started the Long Now Foundation, which is building a clock designed to last 10,000 years, in an attempt to draw attention to the pitifully short attention span of our society. (See “Test of Time,” Wired 8.03.)So I flew to Los Angeles for the express purpose of having dinner with Danny and his wife, Pati. I went through my nowfamiliar routine, trotting out the ideas and passages that I found so disturbing. Danny's answer—directed specifically at Kurzweil's scenario of humans merging with robots—came swiftly, and quite surprised me. He said, simply, that the changes would come gradually, and that we would get used to them.But I guess I wasn't totally surprised. I had seen a quote from Danny in Kurzweil's book in which he said, “I'm as fond of my body as anyone, but if I can be 200 with a body of silicon, I'll take it.” It seemed that he was at peace with this process and its attendant risks, while I was not.While talking and thinking about Kurzweil, Kaczynski, and Moravec, I suddenly remembered a novel I had read almost 20 years ago The White Plague, by Frank Herbert—in which a molecular biologist is driven insane by the senseless murder of his family. To seek revenge he constructs and disseminates a new and highly contagious plague that kills widely but selectively. (We're lucky Kaczynski was a mathematician, not a molecular biologist.) I was also reminded of the Borg of Star Trek, a hive of partly biological, partly robotic creatures with a strong destructive streak. Borglike disasters are a staple of science fiction, so why hadn't I been more concerned about such robotic dystopias earlier? Why weren't other people more concerned about these nightmarish scenarios?Part of the answer certainly lies in our attitude toward the new—in our bias toward instant familiarity and unquestioning acceptance. Accustomed to living with almost routine scientific breakthroughs, we have yet to come to terms with the fact that the most compelling 21stcentury technologies—robotics, genetic engineering, and nanotechnology—pose a different threat than the technologies that have come before. Specifically, robots, engineered organisms, and nanobots share a dangerous amplifying factor: They can selfreplicate. A bomb is blown up only once—but one bot can become many, and quickly get out of control.Much of my work over the past 25 years has been on computer networking, where the sending and receiving of messages creates the opportunity for outofcontrol replication. But while replication in a computer or a computer network can be a nuisance, at worst it disables a machine or takes down a network or network service. Uncontrolled selfreplication in these newer technologies runs a much greater risk: a risk of substantial damage in the physical world.Each of these technologies also offers untold promise: The vision of near immortality that Kurzweil sees in his robot dreams drives us forward; genetic engineering may soon provide treatments, if not outright cures, for most diseases; and nanotechnology and nanomedicine can address yet more ills. Together they could significantly extend our average life span and improve the quality of our lives. Yet, with each of these technologies, a sequence of small, individually sensible advances leads to an accumulation of great power and, concomitantly, great danger.What was different in the 20th century? Certainly, the technologies underlying the weapons of mass destruction (WMD)—nuclear, biological, and chemical (NBC)—were powerful, and the weapons an enormous threat. But building nuclear weapons required, at least for a time, access to both rare—indeed, effectively unavailable—raw materials and highly protected information; biological and chemical weapons programs also tended to require largescale activities.The 21stcentury technologies—genetics, nanotechnology, and robotics (GNR)—are so powerful that they can spawn whole new classes of accidents and abuses. Most dangerously, for the first time, these accidents and abuses are widely within the reach of individuals or small groups. They will not require large facilities or rare raw materials. Knowledge alone will enable the use of them.Thus we have the possibility not just of weapons of mass destruction but of knowledgeenabled mass destruction (KMD), this destructiveness hugely amplified by the power of selfreplication.I think it is no exaggeration to say we are on the cusp of the further perfection of extreme evil, an evil whose possibility spreads well beyond that which weapons of mass destruction bequeathed to the nationstates, on to a surprising and terrible empowerment of extreme individuals.NOTHING ABOUT THE way I got involved with computers suggested to me that I was going to be facing these kinds of issues.My life has been driven by a deep need to ask questions and find answers. When I was 3, I was already reading, so my father took me to the elementary school, where I sat on the principal's lap and read him a story. I started school early, later skipped a grade, and escaped into books—I was incredibly motivated to learn. I asked lots of questions, often driving adults to distraction.As a teenager I was very interested in science and technology. I wanted to be a ham radio operator but didn't have the money to buy the equipment. Ham radio was the Internet of its time: very addictive, and quite solitary. Money issues aside, my mother put her foot down—I was not to be a ham; I was antisocial enough already.I may not have had many close friends, but I was awash in ideas. By high school, I had discovered the great science fiction writers. I remember especially Heinlein's Have Spacesuit Will Travel and Asimov’s I, Robot, with its Three Laws of Robotics. I was enchanted by the descriptions of space travel, and wanted to have a telescope to look at the stars; since I had no money to buy or make one, I checked books on telescopemaking out of the library and read about making them instead. I soared in my imagination.Thursday nights my parents went bowling, and we kids stayed home alone. It was the night of Gene Roddenberry's original Star Trek, and the program made a big impression on me. I came to accept its notion that humans had a future in space, Westernstyle, with big heroes and adventures. Roddenberry's vision of the centuries to come was one with strong moral values, embodied in codes like the Prime Directive: to not interfere in the development of less technologically advanced civilizations. This had an incredible appeal to me; ethical humans, not robots, dominated this future, and I took Roddenberry's dream as part of my own.I excelled in mathematics in high school, and when I went to the University of Michigan as an undergraduate engineering student I took the advanced curriculum of the mathematics majors. Solving math problems was an exciting challenge, but when I discovered computers I found something much more interesting: a machine into which you could put a program that attempted to solve a problem, after which the machine quickly checked the solution. The computer had a clear notion of correct and incorrect, true and false. Were my ideas correct? The machine could tell me. This was very seductive.I was lucky enough to get a job programming early supercomputers and discovered the amazing power of large machines to numerically simulate advanced designs. When I went to graduate school at UC Berkeley in the mid1970s, I started staying up late, often all night, inventing new worlds inside the machines. Solving problems. Writing the code that argued so strongly to be written.In The Agony and the Ecstasy, Irving Stone's biographical novel of Michelangelo, Stone described vividly how Michelangelo released the statues from the stone, “breaking the marble spell,” carving from the images in his mind. 4 In my most ecstatic moments, the software in the computer emerged in the same way. Once I had imagined it in my mind I felt that it was already there in the machine, waiting to be released. Staying up all night seemed a small price to pay to free it—to give the ideas concrete form.After a few years at Berkeley I started to send out some of the software I had written—an instructional Pascal system, Unix utilities, and a text editor called vi (which is still, to my surprise, widely used more than 20 years later)—to others who had similar small PDP11 and VAX minicomputers. These adventures in software eventually turned into the Berkeley version of the Unix operating system, which became a personal “success disaster”—so many people wanted it that I never finished my PhD. Instead I got a job working for Darpa putting Berkeley Unix on the Internet and fixing it to be reliable and to run large research applications well. This was all great fun and very rewarding. And, frankly, I saw no robots here, or anywhere near.Still, by the early 1980s, I was drowning. The Unix releases were very successful, and my little project of one soon had money and some staff, but the problem at Berkeley was always office space rather than money—there wasn't room for the help the project needed, so when the other founders of Sun Microsystems showed up I jumped at the chance to join them. At Sun, the long hours continued into the early days of workstations and personal computers, and I have enjoyed participating in the creation of advanced microprocessor technologies and Internet technologies such as Java and Jini.From all this, I trust it is clear that I am not a Luddite. I have always, rather, had a strong belief in the value of the scientific search for truth and in the ability of great engineering to bring material progress. The Industrial Revolution has immeasurably improved everyone's life over the last couple hundred years, and I always expected my career to involve the building of worthwhile solutions to real problems, one problem at a time.I have not been disappointed. My work has had more impact than I had ever hoped for and has been more widely used than I could have reasonably expected. I have spent the last 20 years still trying to figure out how to make computers as reliable as I want them to be (they are not nearly there yet) and how to make them simple to use (a goal that has met with even less relative success). Despite some progress, the problems that remain seem even more daunting.But while I was aware of the moral dilemmas surrounding technology's consequences in fields like weapons research, I did not expect that I would confront such issues in my own field, or at least not so soon.PERHAPS IT IS always hard to see the bigger impact while you are in the vortex of a change. Failing to understand the consequences of our inventions while we are in the rapture of discovery and innovation seems to be a common fault of scientists and technologists; we have long been driven by the overarching desire to know that is the nature of science's quest, not stopping to notice that the progress to newer and more powerful technologies can take on a life of its own.I have long realized that the big advances in information technology come not from the work of computer scientists, computer architects, or electrical engineers, but from that of physical scientists. The physicists Stephen Wolfram and Brosl Hasslacher introduced me, in the early 1980s, to chaos theory and nonlinear systems. In the 1990s, I learned about complex systems from conversations with Danny Hillis, the biologist Stuart Kauffman, the Nobellaureate physicist Murray GellMann, and others. Most recently, Hasslacher and the electrical engineer and device physicist Mark Reed have been giving me insight into the incredible possibilities of molecular electronics.In my own work, as codesigner of three microprocessor architectures—SPARC, picoJava, and MAJC—and as the designer of several implementations thereof, I've been afforded a deep and firsthand acquaintance with Moore's law. For decades, Moore's law has correctly predicted the exponential rate of improvement of semiconductor technology. Until last year I believed that the rate of advances predicted by Moore's law might continue only until roughly 2010, when some physical limits would begin to be reached. It was not obvious to me that a new technology would arrive in time to keep performance advancing smoothly.But because of the recent rapid and radical progress in molecular electronics—where individual atoms and molecules replace lithographically drawn transistors—and related nanoscale technologies, we should be able to meet or exceed the Moore's law rate of progress for another 30 years. By 2030, we are likely to be able to build machines, in quantity, a million times as powerful as the personal computers of today—sufficient to implement the dreams of Kurzweil and Moravec.As this enormous computing power is combined with the manipulative advances of the physical sciences and the new, deep understandings in genetics, enormous transformative power is being unleashed. These combinations open up the opportunity to completely redesign the world, for better or worse: The replicating and evolving processes that have been confined to the natural world are about to become realms of human endeavor.In designing software and microprocessors, I have never had the feeling that I was designing an intelligent machine. The software and hardware is so fragile and the capabilities of the machine to “think” so clearly absent that, even as a possibility, this has always seemed very far in the future.But now, with the prospect of humanlevel computing power in about 30 years, a new idea suggests itself: that I may be working to create tools which will enable the construction of the technology that may replace our species. How do I feel about this? Very uncomfortable. Having struggled my entire career to build reliable software systems, it seems to me more than likely that this future will not work out as well as some people may imagine. My personal experience suggests we tend to overestimate our design abilities.Given the incredible power of these new technologies, shouldn't we be asking how we can best coexist with them? And if our own extinction is a likely, or even possible, outcome of our technological development, shouldn't we proceed with great caution?THE DREAM OF robotics is, first, that intelligent machines can do our work for us, allowing us lives of leisure, restoring us to Eden. Yet in his history of such ideas, Darwin Among the Machines, George Dyson warns: “In the game of life and evolution there are three players at the table: human beings, nature, and machines. I am firmly on the side of nature. But nature, I suspect, is on the side of the machines.” As we have seen, Moravec agrees, believing we may well not survive the encounter with the superior robot species.How soon could such an intelligent robot be built? The coming advances in computing power seem to make it possible by 2030. And once an intelligent robot exists, it is only a small step to a robot species—to an intelligent robot that can make evolved copies of itself.A second dream of robotics is that we will gradually replace ourselves with our robotic technology, achieving near immortality by downloading our consciousnesses; it is this process that Danny Hillis thinks we will gradually get used to and that Ray Kurzweil elegantly details in The Age of Spiritual Machines. (We are beginning to see intimations of this in the implantation of computer devices into the human body, as illustrated on the cover of Wired 8.02.)But if we are downloaded into our technology, what are the chances that we will thereafter be ourselves or even human? It seems to me far more likely that a robotic existence would not be like a human one in any sense that we understand, that the robots would in no sense be our children, that on this path our humanity may well be lost.Genetic engineering promises to revolutionize agriculture by increasing crop yields while reducing the use of pesticides; to create tens of thousands of novel species of bacteria, plants, viruses, and animals; to replace reproduction, or supplement it, with cloning; to create cures for many diseases, increasing our life span and our quality of life; and much, much more. We now know with certainty that these profound changes in the biological sciences are imminent and will challenge all our notions of what life is.Technologies such as human cloning have in particular raised our awareness of the profound ethical and moral issues we face. If, for example, we were to reengineer ourselves into several separate and unequal species using the power of genetic engineering, then we would threaten the notion of equality that is the very cornerstone of our democracy.Given the incredible power of genetic engineering, it's no surprise that there are significant safety issues in its use. My friend Amory Lovins recently cowrote, along with Hunter Lovins, an editorial that provides an ecological view of some of these dangers. Among their concerns: that “the new botany aligns the development of plants with their economic, not evolutionary, success.” (See “A Tale of Two Botanies”) Amory's long career has been focused on energy and resource efficiency by taking a wholesystem view of humanmade systems; such a wholesystem view often finds simple, smart solutions to otherwise seemingly difficult problems, and is usefully applied here as well.After reading the Lovins' editorial, I saw an oped by Gregg Easterbrook in The New York Times (November 19, 1999) about genetically engineered crops, under the headline: “Food for the Future: Someday, rice will have builtin vitamin A. Unless the Luddites win.”Are Amory and Hunter Lovins Luddites? Certainly not. I believe we all would agree that golden rice, with its builtin vitamin A, is probably a good thing, if developed with proper care and respect for the likely dangers in moving genes across species boundaries.Awareness of the dangers inherent in genetic engineering is beginning to grow, as reflected in the Lovins’ editorial. The general public is aware of, and uneasy about, genetically modified foods, and seems to be rejecting the notion that such foods should be permitted to be unlabeled.But genetic engineering technology is already very far along. As the Lovins note, the USDA has already approved about 50 genetically engineered crops for unlimited release; more than half of the world's soybeans and a third of its corn now contain genes spliced in from other forms of life.While there are many important issues here, my own major concern with genetic engineering is narrower: that it gives the power—whether militarily, accidentally, or in a deliberate terrorist act—to create a White Plague.The many wonders of nanotechnology were first imagined by the Nobellaureate physicist Richard Feynman in a speech he gave in 1959, subsequently published under the title “There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom.” The book that made a big impression on me, in the mid‘80s, was Eric Drexler's Engines of Creation, in which he described beautifully how manipulation of matter at the atomic level could create a utopian future of abundance, where just about everything could be made cheaply, and almost any imaginable disease or physical problem could be solved using nanotechnology and artificial intelligences.A subsequent book, Unbounding the Future: The Nanotechnology Revolution, which Drexler cowrote, imagines some of the changes that might take place in a world where we had molecularlevel “assemblers.” Assemblers could make possible incredibly lowcost solar power, cures for cancer and the common cold by augmentation of the human immune system, essentially complete cleanup of the environment, incredibly inexpensive pocket supercomputers—in fact, any product would be manufacturable by assemblers at a cost no greater than that of wood—spaceflight more accessible than transoceanic travel today, and restoration of extinct species.I remember feeling good about nanotechnology after reading Engines of Creation. As a technologist, it gave me a sense of calm—that is, nanotechnology showed us that incredible progress was possible, and indeed perhaps inevitable. If nanotechnology was our future, then I didn't feel pressed to solve so many problems in the present. I would get to Drexler's utopian future in due time; I might as well enjoy life more in the here and now. It didn't make sense, given his vision, to stay up all night, all the time.Drexler's vision also led to a lot of good fun. I would occasionally get to describe the wonders of nanotechnology to others who had not heard of it. After teasing them with all the things Drexler described I would give a homework assignment of my own: “Use nanotechnology to create a vampire; for extra credit create an antidote.”With these wonders came clear dangers, of which I was acutely aware. As I said at a nanotechnology conference in 1989, “We can't simply do our science and not worry about these ethical issues.” 5 But my subsequent conversations with physicists convinced me that nanotechnology might not even work—or, at least, it wouldn't work anytime soon. Shortly thereafter I moved to Colorado, to a skunk works I had set up, and the focus of my work shifted to software for the Internet, specifically on ideas that became Java and Jini.Then, last summer, Brosl Hasslacher told me that nanoscale molecular electronics was now practical. This was new news, at least to me, and I think to many people—and it radically changed my opinion about nanotechnology. It sent me back to Engines of Creation. Rereading Drexler's work after more than 10 years, I was dismayed to realize how little I had remembered of its lengthy section called “Dangers and Hopes,” including a discussion of how nanotechnologies can become “engines of destruction.” Indeed, in my rereading of this cautionary material today, I am struck by how naive some of Drexler's safeguard proposals seem, and how much greater I judge the dangers to be now than even he seemed to then. (Having anticipated and described many technical and political problems with nanotechnology, Drexler started the Foresight Institute in the late 1980s “to help prepare society for anticipated advanced technologies”—most important, nanotechnology.)The enabling breakthrough to assemblers seems quite likely within the next 20 years. Molecular electronics—the new subfield of nanotechnology where individual molecules are circuit elements—should mature quickly and become enormously lucrative within this decade, causing a large incremental investment in all nanotechnologies.Unfortunately, as with nuclear technology, it is far easier to create destructive uses for nanotechnology than constructive ones. Nanotechnology has clear military and terrorist uses, and you need not be suicidal to release a massively destructive nanotechnological device—such devices can be built to be selectively destructive, affecting, for example, only a certain geographical area or a group of people who are genetically distinct.An immediate consequence of the Faustian bargain in obtaining the great power of nanotechnology is that we run a grave risk—the risk that we might destroy the biosphere on which all life depends.As Drexler explained:“Plants” with “leaves” no more efficient than today's solar cells could outcompete real plants, crowding the biosphere with an inedible foliage. Tough omnivorous "bacteria" could outcompete real bacteria: They could spread like blowing pollen, replicate swiftly, and reduce the biosphere to dust in a matter of days. Dangerous replicators could easily be too tough, small, and rapidly spreading to stop—at least if we make no preparation. We have trouble enough controlling viruses and fruit flies.Among the cognoscenti of nanotechnology, this threat has become known as the “gray goo problem.” Though masses of uncontrolled replicators need not be gray or gooey, the term “gray goo” emphasizes that replicators able to obliterate life might be less inspiring than a single species of crabgrass. They might be superior in an evolutionary sense, but this need not make them valuable.The gray goo threat makes one thing perfectly clear: We cannot afford certain kinds of accidents with replicating assemblers.Gray goo would surely be a depressing ending to our human adventure on Earth, far worse than mere fire or ice, and one that could stem from a simple laboratory accident. IT IS MOST of all the power of destructive selfreplication in genetics, nanotechnology, and robotics (GNR) that should give us pause. Selfreplication is the modus operandi of genetic engineering, which uses the machinery of the cell to replicate its designs, and the prime danger underlying gray goo in nanotechnology. Stories of runamok robots like the Borg, replicating or mutating to escape from the ethical constraints imposed on them by their creators, are well established in our science fiction books and movies. It is even possible that selfreplication may be more fundamental than we thought, and hence harder—or even impossible—to control. A recent article by Stuart Kauffman in Nature titled “SelfReplication: Even Peptides Do It” discusses the discovery that a 32aminoacid peptide can “autocatalyse its own synthesis.” We don't know how widespread this ability is, but Kauffman notes that it may hint at “a route to selfreproducing molecular systems on a basis far wider than WatsonCrick basepairing.” 7In truth, we have had in hand for years clear warnings of the dangers inherent in widespread knowledge of GNR technologies—of the possibility of knowledge alone enabling mass destruction. But these warnings haven't been widely publicized; the public discussions have been clearly inadequate. There is no profit in publicizing the dangers.The nuclear, biological, and chemical (NBC) technologies used in 20thcentury weapons of mass destruction were and are largely military, developed in government laboratories. In sharp contrast, the 21stcentury GNR technologies have clear commercial uses and are being developed almost exclusively by corporate enterprises. In this age of triumphant commercialism, technology—with science as its handmaiden—is delivering a series of almost magical inventions that are the most phenomenally lucrative ever seen. We are aggressively pursuing the promises of these new technologies within the nowunchallenged system of global capitalism and its manifold financial incentives and competitive pressures.This is the first moment in the history of our planet when any species, by its own voluntary actions, has become a danger to itself—as well as to vast numbers of others.It might be a familiar progression, transpiring on many worlds—a planet, newly formed, placidly revolves around its star; life slowly forms; a kaleidoscopic procession of creatures evolves; intelligence emerges which, at least up to a point, confers enormous survival value; and then technology is invented. It dawns on them that there are such things as laws of Nature, that these laws can be revealed by experiment, and that knowledge of these laws can be made both to save and to take lives, both on unprecedented scales. Science, they recognize, grants immense powers. In a flash, they create worldaltering contrivances. Some planetary civilizations see their way through, place limits on what may and what must not be done, and safely pass through the time of perils. Others, not so lucky or so prudent, perish.That is Carl Sagan, writing in 1994, in Pale Blue Dot, a book describing his vision of the human future in space. I am only now realizing how deep his insight was, and how sorely I miss, and will miss, his voice. For all its eloquence, Sagan's contribution was not least that of simple common sense—an attribute that, along with humility, many of the leading advocates of the 21stcentury technologies seem to lack.I remember from my childhood that my grandmother was strongly against the overuse of antibiotics. She had worked since before the first World War as a nurse and had a commonsense attitude that taking antibiotics, unless they were absolutely necessary, was bad for you.It is not that she was an enemy of progress. She saw much progress in an almost 70year nursing career; my grandfather, a diabetic, benefited greatly from the improved treatments that became available in his lifetime. But she, like many levelheaded people, would probably think it greatly arrogant for us, now, to be designing a robotic “replacement species,” when we obviously have so much trouble making relatively simple things work, and so much trouble managing—or even understanding—ourselves.I realize now that she had an awareness of the nature of the order of life, and of the necessity of living with and respecting that order. With this respect comes a necessary humility that we, with our early21stcentury chutzpah, lack at our peril. The commonsense view, grounded in this respect, is often right, in advance of the scientific evidence. The clear fragility and inefficiencies of the humanmade systems we have built should give us all pause; the fragility of the systems I have worked on certainly humbles me.We should have learned a lesson from the making of the first atomic bomb and the resulting arms race. We didn't do well then, and the parallels to our current situation are troubling.The effort to build the first atomic bomb was led by the brilliant physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer. Oppenheimer was not naturally interested in politics but became painfully aware of what he perceived as the grave threat to Western civilization from the Third Reich, a threat surely grave because of the possibility that Hitler might obtain nuclear weapons. Energized by this concern, he brought his strong intellect, passion for physics, and charismatic leadership skills to Los Alamos and led a rapid and successful effort by an incredible collection of great minds to quickly invent the bomb.What is striking is how this effort continued so naturally after the initial impetus was removed. In a meeting shortly after VE Day with some physicists who felt that perhaps the effort should stop, Oppenheimer argued to continue. His stated reason seems a bit strange: not because of the fear of large casualties from an invasion of Japan, but because the United Nations, which was soon to be formed, should have foreknowledge of atomic weapons. A more likely reason the project continued is the momentum that had built up—the first atomic test, Trinity, was nearly at hand.We know that in preparing this first atomic test the physicists proceeded despite a large number of possible dangers. They were initially worried, based on a calculation by Edward Teller, that an atomic explosion might set fire to the atmosphere. A revised calculation reduced the danger of destroying the world to a threeinamillion chance. (Teller says he was later able to dismiss the prospect of atmospheric ignition entirely.) Oppenheimer, though, was sufficiently concerned about the result of Trinity that he arranged for a possible evacuation of the southwest part of the state of New Mexico. And, of course, there was the clear danger of starting a nuclear arms race.Within a month of that first, successful test, two atomic bombs destroyed Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Some scientists had suggested that the bomb simply be demonstrated, rather than dropped on Japanese cities—saying that this would greatly improve the chances for arms control after the war—but to no avail. With the tragedy of Pearl Harbor still fresh in Americans' minds, it would have been very difficult for President Truman to order a demonstration of the weapons rather than use them as he did—the desire to quickly end the war and save the lives that would have been lost in any invasion of Japan was very strong. Yet the overriding truth was probably very simple: As the physicist Freeman Dyson later said, “The reason that it was dropped was just that nobody had the courage or the foresight to say no.”It's important to realize how shocked the physicists were in the aftermath of the bombing of Hiroshima, on August 6, 1945. They describe a series of waves of emotion: first, a sense of fulfillment that the bomb worked, then horror at all the people that had been killed, and then a convincing feeling that on no account should another bomb be dropped. Yet of course another bomb was dropped, on Nagasaki, only three days after the bombing of Hiroshima.In November 1945, three months after the atomic bombings, Oppenheimer stood firmly behind the scientific attitude, saying, “It is not possible to be a scientist unless you believe that the knowledge of the world, and the power which this gives, is a thing which is of intrinsic value to humanity, and that you are using it to help in the spread of knowledge and are willing to take the consequences.”Oppenheimer went on to work, with others, on the AchesonLilienthal report, which, as Richard Rhodes says in his recent book Visions of Technology, “found a way to prevent a clandestine nuclear arms race without resorting to armed world government”; their suggestion was a form of relinquishment of nuclear weapons work by nationstates to an international agency.This proposal led to the Baruch Plan, which was submitted to the United Nations in June 1946 but never adopted (perhaps because, as Rhodes suggests, Bernard Baruch had “insisted on burdening the plan with conventional sanctions,” thereby inevitably dooming it, even though it would “almost certainly have been rejected by Stalinist Russia anyway”). Other efforts to promote sensible steps toward internationalizing nuclear power to prevent an arms race ran afoul either of US politics and internal distrust, or distrust by the Soviets. The opportunity to avoid the arms race was lost, and very quickly.Two years later, in 1948, Oppenheimer seemed to have reached another stage in his thinking, saying, “In some sort of crude sense which no vulgarity, no humor, no overstatement can quite extinguish, the physicists have known sin; and this is a knowledge they cannot lose.”In 1949, the Soviets exploded an atom bomb. By 1955, both the US and the Soviet Union had tested hydrogen bombs suitable for delivery by aircraft. And so the nuclear arms race began.Nearly 20 years ago, in the documentary The Day After Trinity, Freeman Dyson summarized the scientific attitudes that brought us to the nuclear precipice:“I have felt it myself. The glitter of nuclear weapons. It is irresistible if you come to them as a scientist. To feel it's there in your hands, to release this energy that fuels the stars, to let it do your bidding. To perform these miracles, to lift a million tons of rock into the sky. It is something that gives people an illusion of illimitable power, and it is, in some ways, responsible for all our troubles—this, what you might call technical arrogance, that overcomes people when they see what they can do with their minds.” 8Now, as then, we are creators of new technologies and stars of the imagined future, driven—this time by great financial rewards and global competition—despite the clear dangers, hardly evaluating what it may be like to try to live in a world that is the realistic outcome of what we are creating and imagining.IN 1947,The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists began putting a Doomsday Clock on its cover. For more than 50 years, it has shown an estimate of the relative nuclear danger we have faced, reflecting the changing international conditions. The hands on the clock have moved 15 times and today, standing at nine minutes to midnight, reflect continuing and real danger from nuclear weapons. The recent addition of India and Pakistan to the list of nuclear powers has increased the threat of failure of the nonproliferation goal, and this danger was reflected by moving the hands closer to midnight in 1998.In our time, how much danger do we face, not just from nuclear weapons, but from all of these technologies? How high are the extinction risks?The philosopher John Leslie has studied this question and concluded that the risk of human extinction is at least 30 percent, while Ray Kurzweil believes we have “a better than even chance of making it through,” with the caveat that he has “always been accused of being an optimist.” 9 Not only are these estimates not encouraging, but they do not include the probability of many horrid outcomes that lie short of extinction.Faced with such assessments, some serious people are already suggesting that we simply move beyond Earth as quickly as possible. We would colonize the galaxy using von Neumann probes, which hop from star system to star system, replicating as they go. This step will almost certainly be necessary 5 billion years from now (or sooner if our solar system is disastrously impacted by the impending collision of our galaxy with the Andromeda galaxy within the next 3 billion years), but if we take Kurzweil and Moravec at their word it might be necessary by the middle of this century.What are the moral implications here? If we must move beyond Earth this quickly in order for the species to survive, who accepts the responsibility for the fate of those (most of us, after all) who are left behind? And even if we scatter to the stars, isn't it likely that we may take our problems with us or find, later, that they have followed us? The fate of our species on Earth and our fate in the galaxy seem inextricably linked.Another idea is to erect a series of shields to defend against each of the dangerous technologies. The Strategic Defense Initiative, proposed by the Reagan administration, was an attempt to design such a shield against the threat of a nuclear attack from the Soviet Union. But as Arthur C. Clarke, who was privy to discussions about the project, observed: “Though it might be possible, at vast expense, to construct local defense systems that would 'only' let through a few percent of ballistic missiles, the much touted idea of a national umbrella was nonsense. Luis Alvarez, perhaps the greatest experimental physicist of this century, remarked to me that the advocates of such schemes were ‘very bright guys with no common sense.’”Clarke continued: “Looking into my often cloudy crystal ball, I suspect that a total defense might indeed be possible in a century or so. But the technology involved would produce, as a byproduct, weapons so terrible that no one would bother with anything as primitive as ballistic missiles.” 10In Engines of Creation, Eric Drexler proposed that we build an active nanotechnological shield—a form of immune system for the biosphere—to defend against dangerous replicators of all kinds that might escape from laboratories or otherwise be maliciously created. But the shield he proposed would itself be extremely dangerous—nothing could prevent it from developing autoimmune problems and attacking the biosphere itself. 11Similar difficulties apply to the construction of shields against robotics and genetic engineering. These technologies are too powerful to be shielded against in the time frame of interest; even if it were possible to implement defensive shields, the side effects of their development would be at least as dangerous as the technologies we are trying to protect against.These possibilities are all thus either undesirable or unachievable or both. The only realistic alternative I see is relinquishment: to limit development of the technologies that are too dangerous, by limiting our pursuit of certain kinds of knowledge.Yes, I know, knowledge is good, as is the search for new truths. We have been seeking knowledge since ancient times. Aristotle opened his Metaphysics with the simple statement: “All men by nature desire to know.” We have, as a bedrock value in our society, long agreed on the value of open access to information, and recognize the problems that arise with attempts to restrict access to and development of knowledge. In recent times, we have come to revere scientific knowledge.But despite the strong historical precedents, if open access to and unlimited development of knowledge henceforth puts us all in clear danger of extinction, then common sense demands that we reexamine even these basic, longheld beliefs.It was Nietzsche who warned us, at the end of the 19th century, not only that God is dead but that “faith in science, which after all exists undeniably, cannot owe its origin to a calculus of utility; it must have originated in spite of the fact that the disutility and dangerousness of the 'will to truth,' of 'truth at any price' is proved to it constantly.” It is this further danger that we now fully face—the consequences of our truthseeking. The truth that science seeks can certainly be considered a dangerous substitute for God if it is likely to lead to our extinction.If we could agree, as a species, what we wanted, where we were headed, and why, then we would make our future much less dangerous—then we might understand what we can and should relinquish. Otherwise, we can easily imagine an arms race developing over GNR technologies, as it did with the NBC technologies in the 20th century. This is perhaps the greatest risk, for once such a race begins, it's very hard to end it. This time—unlike during the Manhattan Project—we aren't in a war, facing an implacable enemy that is threatening our civilization; we are driven, instead, by our habits, our desires, our economic system, and our competitive need to know.I believe that we all wish our course could be determined by our collective values, ethics, and morals. If we had gained more collective wisdom over the past few thousand years, then a dialogue to this end would be more practical, and the incredible powers we are about to unleash would not be nearly so troubling.One would think we might be driven to such a dialogue by our instinct for selfpreservation. Individuals clearly have this desire, yet as a species our behavior seems to be not in our favor. In dealing with the nuclear threat, we often spoke dishonestly to ourselves and to each other, thereby greatly increasing the risks. Whether this was politically motivated, or because we chose not to think ahead, or because when faced with such grave threats we acted irrationally out of fear, I do not know, but it does not bode well.The new Pandora's boxes of genetics, nanotechnology, and robotics are almost open, yet we seem hardly to have noticed. Ideas can't be put back in a box; unlike uranium or plutonium, they don't need to be mined and refined, and they can be freely copied. Once they are out, they are out. Churchill remarked, in a famous lefthanded compliment, that the American people and their leaders “invariably do the right thing, after they have examined every other alternative.” In this case, however, we must act more presciently, as to do the right thing only at last may be to lose the chance to do it at allHuman beings have always looked up to the future, wondering what we can achieve. Thisis something that has been happening since the beginning of time, when people looked up to thestars and wondered what we could achieve. This led to the discovery of new things and theinvention of new technologies. As the world becomes more technologydependent, it seems like the future will not needus humans. New technology is developed at such a quick rate that human beings will not be ableto keep up. The human race is already facing major problems, and the future does not seembright. These are some of the negative trends that are happening in our world today. The future iscoming and it will bring many changes with it. The way we live our lives will change and manyof the jobs that require human interaction will be taken over by the machines. The jobs that aremost at risk are the ones that require a human touch. I don’t think it’s a good thing. Yes,technology does save time, provides convenience, and helps us accomplish our daily tasks. Butit’s scary how the future will be a place where the machines do all the work, and we need not doanything. The future will be a place where humans will have to compete for resources and jobswith technology.We are entering a new era where technology is not just about making things easier for us,but where technology itself will be the “thing”. As humans are being replaced by technology inmany industries, it seems as though we might not need humans in this future. What are theimplications of this?The rise of technology, especially in the service sector, has significantly increased thenumber of jobs available to humans in the world. The fact that the world is getting more andmore automated means that humans will need to find other ways to survive. It is this rise inautomation that might kill off the human being. It has been shown that if the use of technologyincreases, especially in the service sector, the number of jobs available to humans decreases.Automation is being used in more and more industries, as it is seen as the way in which work canbe done quickly, easily, and cheaply. In the last few years, we have seen many industries beingautomated.There is a fear that machines will be capable of surpassing human intelligence, and thismight be a problem for humans. Since machines can be built to be capable of making decisionsmuch quicker than humans can, it seems that we might become obsolete. The biggest problem isthat if machines are capable of making decisions faster than humans then we will not be allowedto make decisions. This puts humans at the disadvantage, as they are being forced to wait untilmachines have made a decision instead of being allowed to make a decision.The rise of artificial intelligence and robotics has raised many ethical concerns. If theseforms of technology are fully used in the future, it may be possible that we will not need humans.Artificial intelligence and robotics will be able to perform tasks that are so complex andimportant to our societies that no human being should perform. It is easy to find examples oftechnologies that are already being used that can replace human beings.It has been shown by many studies that as technology is enhanced, whether it is humantechnology or machine technology, the number of jobs available to human decreases. The moreadvanced an industry becomes, the higher the rate of job loss. We can see this in the example ofinformation technology. The use of technology is more and more prevalent in every industry.It is likely that we will continue to need humans, as most people agree that it is a goodthing to have humans around. Just as humans have been around since the beginning of time, it islikely that the human race will continue to exist. Although the rise of artificial intelligence androbotics may lead to the replacement of humans in some industries, most industries can bethought of as being a good thing. The only industries that some people consider to be a bad thingwould be industries that humans are not allowed to work in, but with the rise of technology, thisis becoming more and more unlikely.What are the reason and meaning why the future doesnt need us?In April 2000, Bill Joy (cofounder of Sun Microsystems) published an article in Wired magazine entitled “Why the Future Doesn't Need Us.” In it, he argues that "Our most powerful 21stcentury technologies—robotics, genetic engineering, and nanotech—are threatening to make humans an endangered species."CHAPTER 7: WHY THE FUTURE DOES NOT NEED USDoes the future still really need us or will the AI overpower us?The rate of improvement of technologywas going to accelerate and that wewere going to be full robots, half robotsor fused with robots or somethingcontrolled by robots and either thiscouldn’t happen because the robots’data banksNew technologies like geneticengineering and nanotechnology weregiving us the power either to remake orrewrite the world. But a realistic andimminent scenario for intelligent robotswill surprise everyone.Human may have gain near immortalityby becoming one with robotictechnology.There is a rapid advancement on technologies,and as generations goes by, it will improve morethan we know, that robotics will be a part of us inany aspect of life.Genetic engineering allows us to reprogram ourown biological factors, nanotechnology on theother hand allows us to manipulate or makechanges with matter. Robotics allows us to makeor create a master piece which resembles to usand has nonbiological intelligence, which can domore than we can.Super ComputerPeople now sense of unease only intensified; Scientist felt sure they had to beunderstating the dangers, understating theprobability of a bad outcome along thispath. Otherwise the world is in peril a.k.an endof the world controlled by humans orcontrolled by robots run by a fewintelligent humans or by the robots run bysupercomputers.Of course these advancements will really make a hugechange in our world, where in, it can have both positiveand negative effects to us.Thou scientist were able to develop new things, we are notthat fully aware about the dangers of it and possiblenegative results that we may have.In that case, if that is used in a wrong way, we might endup having the world that we couldn’t imagine. Computer scientists succeed indeveloping intelligent machines betterthan human beings can do.In that case: All work will be done by vast Highly organized systems ofmachines and no human effort willbe necessary.With this development:It will help us more to do tasks faster than usual.It is already set to produce huge amount of products in a short span of time that is underthe standard/program that we can instil on it.We can foresee a future where machines hold a bigger part of the planning up to decisionmaking and enhancement of our own task/work. Two cases might occur : machines might be permitted tomake all of their own decisionswithout human oversighto human control over machinesmight be retained.Due to the advancement mentioned above, these arethe possible outcomes that we can have.Supercomputers for example can do task on its ownafter being programmed, if that’s the case we might endup, not needed in the future. But some machineryneeds further/continuous monitoring that we humansmay be retained in doing it. If the machines are permitted to make alltheir decisions we can’t make anyassumptions as to the results, it isimpossible to predict how such technologymight react. We can only predict that the fate of thehuman race would be at the mercy of therobots. Human race would never be fooled to behanded over all the power to the metalliccreatures Neither human race would voluntarily turnover power to the machines nor that wouldthe machines fully seize power from them. Humanity may easily permit itself to pullinto a position of such reliance ordependence on the machines that it wouldhave no practical choice but to accept andfollow all of the machines’ decisions.It is simply stating that when technology iscontinuously advancing, human race will endto a world where we depends more ontechnologies and give power to technologiesin making not just our task but any aspects ofour life. As society and the problems it facesbecome more complicated and machinesbecome more intelligent, people might justfollow these machines make more of theirdecisions simply because machine madedecisions will be well planned and willbring better results than what humanitydoes. At this stage machines will be completeand effective control of society. People won’t be able to just turn themachines off, because they will be sodependent on them that turning them offwould amount to suicide.Instead of us making improvement anddevelopments to ourselves we tend to rely onthe use of technologies, in fact we let it controlthe everyday activities. And it seems that iftechnologies are not around us, we felt likethere is a big part of us that is missing. It is possible that human can still controlthe machines which this fact may beretained. Average man may have controlover some of his personal orprivate machines such as car,computer. But control over large systems ofmachines outside his personal domainwill be in the hands of tiny elitethemachines with two differences, Due to improved techniques the machinecompletely controls over the society andbecause human world is rendered notworkable anymore society isunnecessary. If the machine is ruthless it may simplydecide to exterminate the masses. If they are humane, at least literally, theymay use propaganda or othertechniques to reduce the population untilthe most of humanity become extinct,leaving the world to the machines.Already mentioned above, we may end up intow things. First, humanity can still beretained and we can take control with theuse of machineries, but looking forward to it,we can only control thosemachineries/technologies that we have(personal).We don’t have control to those technologiescontrolled by the higher ups which have thelarger systems. Those are the technologiesused to control the society. We all know thatif those technologies were used and powerof authorities is incorporated to it, it canlessen the employability rate, populationgrowth; it can merely control ourbehaviours/actions. Our life will be doomed.If machines consist of soft hearted and open mindedmetals, they may decide to play the role of saviours tothe rest of the human race. They will see that everyone’s physical needs areprovided Children are raised under psychologically moralconditions Everyone has a likeable pastime to keep himbusy at all time Anyone who may become dissatisfied undergoesa treatment and reformation for his satisfaction. Life could be without purpose people will have to be engineered either toremove their need for the power process Make them level up their power and theirdrive for power into some harmless pastime These engineered human beings could becyborgs. (they might be happy but not befree) They may have been transformed into thelower status to the likes of domesticatedanimals that they once have treated with loveIf it is made and used accordingly the roleof it to help us and make ease with oureveryday living will happen. But with humanflora, we know that humans have differentstandards of satisfaction, there areindividuals who long for more power whenthey are already not satisfied with what theyhave, they might end up upgradingthemselves, incorporating technologies withthem that they can resemble to robots, theywill be satisfied, happy but freedom totechnologies are not there.Make an illustration that can show the future (humanity, society) due to the advancement oftechnology.(Make a brief explanation of your work) Murphy’s LawEdward Aloysius Murphy Jr. (January 11,1918 – July 17, 1990)o was an American aerospaceengineer who worked on safetycritical systems. He is best knownfor his namesake Murphy's law,which is said to state, "Anythingthat can go wrong will go wrong".Edward Murphy (Captain Edward Murphy)He was born in Panama, Canal Zone. He states that “If there is any way to do it wrong. He’ll find it”as he complained about one of the technicians serving under him on a project studying the effectsof deceleration on people.His idea is all about “things fall apart”. Any objects were design to help us, but if it can go wrong itwill.For example: “When someone is almost late for work, the jeepney driver goes to a gas station, torefill his tank, resulting to being late.”, another example, you already check the things you need foryour presentation, on the moment that you’re about to present your work, your PowerPoint wontwork or it’s corrupted, your speaker won’t work, DLP and laptop isn’t compatible.Examples:Overdose of medicines or drugs hasled to what may be the biggestproblem so far: The emergence of medicineordrugresistant strains of muchmore dangerous bacteriaThis is another example in field of science.Medicine was created to treat different diseases,but most of the people abuse the intake of it.Sometimes they do not follow the doctor’sinstruction on taking a strict 7days of antibiotics,where it develops drugresistant strains ofbacteria, which any antibacterial medicines won’twork.Cite at least 3 experiences that you encounter in using technologies, machineries,gadgets, etc where it goes wrong.1. When me and my nephew were playing when we were still kids, he had a train thatis needed to be plugged in for it to work but that time we are still uneducated and didn’tknow about the difference between 220V and 110V. We plugged his toy not knowingthat it is 110V. So, in the end we didn’t get the chance to play with it.2. In high school, I used to read stories on Wattpad. I was so addicted to it that I usedto stay until 3am. The it turned into a routine then one day my eyes had red and itskind of dry. It hurts when I tried to touch my eyelid and slowly pressing it. That’s thetime I stopped using my phone for that long.3. I’m the one who always do laundry and the other day, I was not wearing slippersthat is why I was grounded by the Washing Machine.DDT discovery, for elimination of pests likemosquitoes., Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane,commonly known as DDT, is acolorless, tasteless, and almostodorless crystalline chemicalcompound, an organochlorine.Originally developed as an insecticide,however was overly done by humanityin the effort to curb the rapidreproduction of malaria cases.Mosquitoes developed strains that areDDT resistant. Malaria parasiteslikewise acquired multi drug resistantgenes. Now technology continues todevelop chemicals which can outwitthe resistance of new strains of pests.Another example is the use of DDT, It is used to control mosquitoborne malaria, also use on crops asinsecticides, but little did we know that it could harm us humans and pests resistant to pesticides. It isjust like the drug prescription mentioned earlier, which causes bacteria to not react/die to antibiotics. Inhere insects, mosquitoes and pest won’t die to pesticides. The systems are complicated that itinvolves interaction among andreactions between the parts. Change the system and prediction ofthe result becomes difficult. This issignificantly true, when humaninterventions are involved. It mayeven lead to immortality. Biological species almost neversurvive encounter with superiormachinesthe robots.Of course, technology itself has different interrelated/interconnect parts which has its own function. Ifwe change something in it, we need to further checkwhat will happen next, but it would be difficult to assess.The changes we have before is when theanimals transfer from one place to another sothey can look for their food, reproduce andsurvive, make their own place to stay. Now adays, those things are became a memory ofthe past, as robotics are taking their time toshow their advancement. They are replacingthe humanity in terms of doing tasks; bigprojects are now being shown bytechnologies. Millions of years ago one land isconnected to another land bynatural bridges. Faunal travelled from one place toanother and established permanentsettle because of the enormouspresence of edible fauna whichserve as food for them andsuppliers of unending oxygen. Metabolism and reproduction couldnow take place inside a guardedfacility. Living citizens of nature will now apart of the past, slowly beingeliminated by the robots. Robots no longer need thenecessities of life thatbiological humans would besqueezed out of existence. The robots will competeregardless of the manneramong themselves for matter,energy, and elbow roomincidentally pushing their pricebeyond human reach.Unlike us humans, robots do not need those basic necessities like food, water, shelter, etc. Theyare just being programmed on how humans should do a task in a fully furnished way. In that case,they are competing with how we humans do tasks and they can replace us. (Which now a daysare happening little by little). What were the latest in the 20thcentury? The world has developedtechnologies underlying theweapons of mass destruction(WMD), nuclear, biological, andchemical (NBC), were powerful andthe weapons an enormous threat towarring nations. Building weapons of massdestruction would require rawmaterials and highly secretive andprotected information; biologicaland chemical weapons programsalso tended to the samerequirements.These are weapon that can cause widespreaddestruction, contamination or kill largenumbers of people, especially the onementioned above.Nucleardevices that relies on nuclear fissiongenerates an explosion.Biological agents would include anthrax andsmallpox.Chemical agents would include mustard gas,ricin, sarin gas What about the 21st century(technologies)?o Genetics, nanotechnology and robotics(GNR) are so powerful and dangerous thatthey can transform whole new classes oftechnological accidents and abuses. These accidents and abuses are highdangerous and widely within the reachof individuals or small groups. They willnot require large facilities or rarematerials to create them but knowledgealone will enable the use of them.o Humans may able to build machines a milliontimes powerful as the personal computer (adecade from now).As mentioned on the first part of this handout, the trends in today’s generation are GNR.Genetics, Nanotechnology and Robotics.Genetics  allows us to reprogram our own biological factorsNanotechnology allows us to manipulate or make changes with matter.Robotics allows us to make or create a master piece which resembles to us and has nonbiologicalintelligenceHEADLINE NEWS: The U.S.has unveiled its latestsupercomputer which istwice as powerful as theworld’s current leader(news released on June 14,2018).Supercomputer in USA can do a peak performance of awhopping 200,000 trillion calculations per second and that’sas fast as each 7.6billion people of this planet doing 26.3million calculations per second on a calculator.This supercomputer has 24/7 mission to analyze billions ofpieces of data. It collects, processes and analyzes billions ofobservations from weather satellites, weather balloons,airplanes, buoys and surface stations from around the worldto help meteorologist make better weather forecast. SAUDI ARABIAo Saudi Arabia has granted a citizenship to an android by the name ofSofia/Sophia.o Sophia was made by Hanson Robotics of Hong Kong using artificialintelligence technologies developed by U.S born roboticist David Hanson.o She is capable of making “realistic” human facial expressions and learning therelevant and familiar human emotions behind those gestures, she can stimulatea fairly convincing conversation.o Her appearance was modelled on Hollywood actress Audrey Hepburn. Some of the most evident effect of technological advancement/technology TAIWANOver 50% of Taiwanese workers may losejobs due to artificial intelligence (AI). About51.9 % of Taiwan workers are worried aboutbeing replaced by robots in an AI era,particularly in the fields of education andtrade/logistics.On the other hand, about 42.06 % think thatbecause of their age, they would havedifficulty finding a new employment if theylose their jobs as result of AI.This fear is common among workers in the4550 age groups.For those who want to compete with AI, theydecide (about 7.71%) to take steps byupgrading their skills in order to have slight ifnot superior edges over AI.As you can see due to Artificial Intelligence(AI) most of the people are worried to losetheir jobs.As you can see those are the percentages ofindividuals who are worrying and who evenwant to compete with AI.Artificial Intelligence is that simulates thehuman intelligence in machines that areprogrammed to think like humans and mimictheir actions. (Learning and problem solving)She is a realistic humanoid robot capableof displaying humanlike expressions andcan interact with people. She wasdesigned to do research, for education,entertainment, and also helps promotepublic discussion about AI ethics and thefuture robotics.She was activated on February 14,2016.She is able to display more than 60facial expressionsShe has said it would ‘destroy humans,’when she was prompted by its creator,David Hanson JAPAN Tokyo, Japan granted residency to a robot named Mirai. an AI chatbot on the Japanese messaging service LINE who was designedto behave like a 7 years old boy. The European Union has also been looking into the possibility ofclassifying robots as “electronic persons with specific rights andobligations”. Since they behave and think like humans, they, too might have their own“robotic”, humanlike rights.It name is Shibuya Mirai and it only existas a chatbot, Mirai translate to ‘future’ fromJapanese. “His hobbies are taking picturesand observing people, he loves talkingwith people”The opf of it was to familiarize some of the224,000 citizens of the district localgovernment and give them an avenue toshare opinions with officials.He was programmed to be a sevenyearold boy and can have text conversationwith users and even “make lightheartedalterations to selfies he sent”Electronic manufactures offers us more AIs.Examples are voice controls: Siri, Alexa, Etc.There are even robotic cleaning machines.Voice controllers at home.etc.This makes people lazy doing things as we justprogrammed the machines then ask to do taskfor us. Electronics manufacturers are tryingtheir luck on artificial intelligence. Like voice control and AI are twotrends dominating consumers devicesthis 2018. New features like voice control and AIare two trends dominating consumerdevices industry this 2018, attractinginnovation in all segment. This is tantamount of making peoplelazy to do things on their own viavoluntary body movements. The use of these latest apps hasbeen extended to appliances suchas refrigerators, lightings at home,televisions with highlyimprovedresolutions and items such aswearables or smart watches to trackfitness data. The future still needs us. Machine simply will neverunderstand another machine orcannot tap into the emotions ofhumans in making conclusions areassisting the people around them.More and more machines will be developed and inventedto make our life easier. Wearable such as watches,gadgets (ipad, tablet, laptop. Etc)House appliances such as refrigerators, washing machine,Television, Media Players. Etc.Voice controller to light up our house, to open the door, etc.But one thing is for sure, FUTURE IS STILL IN NEED OFUS.WE have big differences with machines, It only work as onhow it was programmed and cannot adjust if there areunnecessary situation happens.Machines simply won’t make any adjustments onwhat was programmed to them unless humansdo so.Humans are still needed in the future. We areunique creations and machines could not imitateus 100% Granting that machines can makedecisions for themselves, there isstill that part in them that willrequire emotions that will assisthumans in their decisions. The future needs us becauseeach man is unique andunderstood knowledge which isone of the reasons why machinesmay never catch up with humanlyroles.WHY THE FUTURED OES NOT NEED US?The developmentof artificial intelligencemay make robots act ordecide like humans.This possibilityneeds reflectionregarding ethicalconsiderationsconcerning robots.Automation, increasing sophistication ofcomputers, and robots may be threateningthe usefulness Of humans and threateninghuman employmentA robotis an actuated mechanismprogrammable in two ormore axes with a degreeof autonomy, movingwithin its environment, toperform intended tasksAutonomymeans the ability toperform intendedtasks based oncurrent state andsensing withouthuman intervention"The ethical dilemma of robots"by Dylan Evans Some countries are drawing ethical codes andlegislation regarding human abuse to robots and viceversa.The development of emotional robotics whichallows robots to recognize human expressions ofemotion and to engage in behavior that humans readilyperceive as emotional also contributes to the ethicaldilemma regarding robots and humans.Some of the ethical questions thatare relevant to this issue include:IWhat does it mean for humans to be replaced by machines?2.15 the value Of a human inversely proportional to that Of a machine exhibiting artificialintelligence?3 How do we guard against mistakes committed by machines?4.1f a robot injures someone. is the designer to blame, or the user. or the robot itself?5." robots can feel pain. should they be granted certain rights?6.1f robots develop emotions, as some experts think they Will, should they be allowed to marryhumans?7.Should robots be allowed to own property?8.1f we see machines as increasingly humanlike, will we come to see ourselves as more machinelike?Humans, Television Sets,Mobile Phones, andComputers•Almost every household contain television sets, mobilephones, and computers.•There are hundreds Of millions Of mobile phonesubscription, millions of active Facebook accounts, andseveral hours of mobile phone and computer interface.•The Philippines has currently one of the highest digitalpopulations in the world and is the fastestgrowingapplication market in Southeast Asia.•These devices are used as platforms for advertisements,propaganda, and advocacies for communication, forinformation dissemination, as recreational activity andstress reliever, and as way to bond with family members.Though there are uses, some argue that there areethical dilemmas that these advancements bringforth. These include: Parents argue that they make children lazy and unhealthy. People become alienated from other people because they are fixated with thesedevices. Instead of connecting people, they tend to separate them. people who are unable to distinguish from what is right and wrong are exposed tothings which are not suitable for them. Also, according to the article "Is Google making us stupid?" by Nicolas Carr, webecome dependent on the Internet that our intelligence is affected, We begin to lose our way of concentration and contemplation and we began to loseinterest in reading longish articles or books.Instead, we rely on the speed and ease of the Internet.Why the future doesn't need us?William Nelson Joy, April 2000William Nelson Joy, an American computer scientist and chief scientist of SunMicrosystems, wrote an article for Wired magazine entitled Why the futuredoesn't need us? Joy warned against the rapid rise of new technologies.He explained that 21st century technologies  genetics, nanotechnology, androbotics (GNR)  are becoming very powerful that they can potentially bringabout new classes Of accidents, threats. and abuses. He further warned that these dangers are even more pressing because they donot require large facilities or even rare materialsKnowledge alone will make them potentially harmful to humansWilliam Nelson JoyHe argued that robotic, genetic engineering, andnanotechnology pose much greater threats thantechnological developments that have comebefore He cited the ability of nanobots to selfreplicate,which could quickly get out of control*He also voiced out about the rapid increase ofcomputer power He was also concerned that computers willeventually become more intelligent thanhumans, thus societies into dystopian visions,such as robot rebellions.Why the future doesn't need us?William Nelson Joy, April 2000Joy's article tackles the unpleasant and uncomfortable possibilities that asenseless approach to scientific and technological advancements may bring.It is very unavoidable to think Of a future that Will no longer need the human raceIt makes thinking of the roles and obligations of every stakeholder a necessarycomponent of scientific and technological advancement,In this case, it is very necessary that the scientific community, governments, andbusinesses engage in a discussion to determine the safeguards of humans againstthe potential dangers of science and technology.Humanity is at a precipice; its future is at stakeThe following sections share selections of comments from technology experts and futurists who elaborate on the ways internet use has shaped humanity over the past 50 years and consider the potential future of digital life. They are gathered under broad, overarching ideas, rather than being tied to the specific themes highlighted above. Many of the answers touch on multiple aspects of the digital future and are not neatly boxed as addressing only one part of the story. Some responses are lightly edited for style and readability.The cautious optimism expressed by many of the experts canvassed for this report grew out of a shared faith in humanity. Many described the current state of techlash as a catalyst that will lead to a more inclusive and inviting internet. Some of these comments are included below.Micah Altman, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and head scientist in the program on information science at MIT Libraries, wrote, “The late historian Melvin Kranzberg insightfully observed, ‘Technology is neither good nor bad; nor is it neutral.’ In the last 50 years, the internet has been transformative and disruptive. In the next 50, information, communication and AI technology show every sign of being even more so. Whether historians of the future judge this to be good or bad will depend on whether we can make the societal choice to embed democratic values and human rights into the design and implementation of these systems.”Juan Ortiz Freuler, a policy fellow, and Nnenna Nwakanma, the interim policy director for Africa at the Web Foundation, wrote, “Unless we see a radical shift soon, the internet as we know it will likely be recalled as a missed opportunity. History will underline that it could have been the basis for radically inclusive societies, where networked communities could actively define their collective future. A tool that could have empowered the people but became a tool for mass surveillance and population control. A tool that could have strengthened the social fiber by allowing people to know each other and share their stories, but out of it grew huge inequalities between the connected and notconnected, both locally and across countries.”Steven Miller, vice provost and professor of information systems at Singapore Management University, said, “Overall, the future will be mostly for the better. And if it is not mostly for the better, the reasons will NOT be due to the technology, per se. The reasons will be due to choices that people and society make – political choices, choices per how we govern society, choices per how we attend to the needs of our populations and societies. These are people and political issues, not technology ones. These are the factors that will dominate whether people are better off or worse off.”Paul Jones, professor of information science at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, responded, “While the internet was built from the beginning to be open and extensible, it relies on communities of trust. As we are seeing this reliance has strong downsides – phishing, fake news, overcustomization and tribalism for starters. Adding systems of trust, beginning with the promises of blockchain, will and must address this failing. Will the next internet strengthen the positives of individualism, of equality and of cooperation or will we become no more than Morlocks and Eloi? I remain optimistic as we address not only the engineering challenges, but also the human and social challenges arising. All tools, including media, are extensions of man. ‘We shape our tools and thereafter our tools shape us,’ as McLuhan is credited for noticing. Nothing could be more true of the next internet and our lives in relation to information access. Can we create in ways now unknown once we are less reliant on memorization and calculation? Will we be better at solving the problems we create for ourselves? I answer with an enormous ‘Yes!’ but then I’m still waiting for the personal jetpack I was promised as a child.”Ray Schroeder, associate vice chancellor for online learning at the University of Illinois, Springfield, wrote, “On the scale of the discovery of fire, the wheel and cultivation of crops, the interconnection of humans will be judged as a very important step toward becoming the beings of the universe that we are destined to be.”Charlie Firestone, communications and society program executive director and vice president at the Aspen Institute, commented, “Fifty years from now is science fiction. There really is no telling with quantum computing, AI, blockchain, virtual reality, broadband (10G?), genetic engineering, robotics and other interesting developments affecting our lives and environments…. It’s just too far ahead to imagine whether we will be in a digital feudal system or highly democratic. But I do imagine that we could be on our way to respeciation with genetics, robotics and AI combined to make us, in today’s image, superhuman. I understand that there are many ways that the technologies will lead to worse lives, particularly with the ability of entities to weaponize virtually any of the technologies and displace jobs. However, the advances in medicine extending lives, the ability to reduce consumption of energy, and the use of robotics and AI to solve our problems are evident. And we have to believe that our successors will opt for ways to improve and extend the human species rather than annihilate it or respeciate.”Edward Tomchin, a retiree, said, “Human beings, homo sapiens, are a most remarkable species which is easily seen in a comparison with how far we have come in the short time since we climbed down out of the trees and emerged from our caves. The speed with which we are currently advancing leaves the future open to a wide range of speculation, but we have overcome much in the past and will continue to do so in pursuit of our future. I’m proud of my species and confident in our future.”Garland McCoy, founder and chief development officer of the Technology Education Institute, wrote, “I hope in 50 years the internet will still be the Chinese fireworks and not become the British gunpowder.”Angelique Hedberg, senior corporate strategy analyst at RTI International, said, “If we choose a future we want in 50 years, and work toward creating it, there is a nonzero probability we will reach a version of that future. In that vein of thought, we will see waves of platform companies that change the way we live and enjoy our lives. The platform companies that exist today will fade, as will the ones that follow. This is not because they fail, but rather, because they succeed. We will find a way to make decisions in a network of decisions. In 50 years, multiple generations of a family will gather for dinner and share sights, smells, sounds, tastes and touches, even if they are in different hemispheres, countries and time zones. You’ll be at a child’s social activity and they will hear the voices  all of those who love (and critique) him. You will say goodbye to aging loved ones, even if they cannot hear you. This will all happen with the assistance of technology (some embedded in our brain) that know our wants and needs better than we know our own. The definition of what it means to be human will evolve and the laws and regulation will follow, albeit in a less than direct manner. We will value governments in new and different ways, and we will expect more from our technology platforms. The deluge of data will provide new inputs into the decision models for platforms, bringing greater clarity to the shortterm benefits and longterm risks, in return making the financial decisions more social, environmental and moral. Where laws and regulations can put a bottom line, they will. Where law and regulations cannot, the planet will step in and regulate the excess.”Daniel Riera, a professor of computer science at Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, commented, “Everything will be connected; automation will be everywhere; most of the jobs will be done by machines. Society will have fully changed to adapt to the new reality: Humans will need to realize the importance of sustainability and equality. In order to reach this point, technology, ethics, philosophy, laws and economics, among other fields, will have done a big joint effort. We have a very good opportunity. It will depend on us to take advantage of it. I hope and trust we will. Otherwise, we will disappear.”Geoff Livingston, author and futurist, commented, “This is a great period of transition. The internet forced us to confront the worst aspects of our humanity. Whether we succumb or not to those character defects as a society remains to be seen.”Brad Templeton, chair for computing at Singularity University, software architect and former president of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, responded, “It’s been the longterm arc of history to be better. There is the potential for nightmares, of course, as well as huge backlashes against the change, including violent ones. But for the past 10,000 years, improvement has been the way to bet.”Mary Chayko, author of “Superconnected: The Internet, Digital Media, and TechnoSocial Life” and professor in the Rutgers School of Communication and Information, said, “The internet’s first 50 years have been techdriven, as a host of technological innovations have become integrated into nearly every aspect of everyday life. The next 50 years will be knowledgedriven, as our understandings ‘catch up’ with the technology. Both technology and knowledge will continue to advance, of course, but it is a deeper engagement with the internet’s most critical qualities and impacts – understandings that can only come with time, experience and reflection – that will truly come to characterize the next 50 years. We will become a ‘smarter’ populace in all kinds of ways.”Yvette Wohn, director of the Social Interaction Lab and expert on humancomputer interaction at New Jersey Institute of Technology, commented, “Technology always has and always will bring positive and negative consequences, but the positives will be so integral to our lives that going back will not be an option. Cars bring pollution, noise and congestion but that doesn’t mean we’re going back to the horse and buggy. We find newer solutions, innovation.”Bob Frankston, software innovation pioneer and technologist based in North America, wrote, “For many people any change will be for the worse because it is unfamiliar. On the positive side, the new capabilities offer the opportunity to empower people and provide solutions for societal problems as long as we don’t succumb to magical thinking.”Matt Mason, a roboticist and the former director of the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, wrote, “The new technology will present opportunities for dramatic changes in the way we live. While it is possible that human society will collectively behave irrationally and choose a path detrimental to its welfare, I see no reason to think that is the more likely outcome.”Stuart A. Umpleby, a professor and director of the research program in social and organizational learning at George Washington University, wrote, “In the future people will live increasingly in the world of ideas, concepts, impressions and interpretations. The world of matter and energy will be mediated by information and context. Already our experiences with food are mediated by thoughts about calories, safety, origins, the lives of workers, etc. Imagine all of life having these additional dimensions. Methods will be needed to cope with the additional complexity.”John Markoff, fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University and author of “Machines of Loving Grace: The Quest for Common Ground Between Humans and Robots,” wrote, “Speculation on the nature of society over timespans of half a century falls completely into the realm of science fiction. And my bet is that science fiction writers will do the best job of speculating about society a half century from now. As someone who has written about Silicon Valley for more than four decades I have two rules of thumb: technologies aren’t real until they show up at Fry’s Electronics and the visionaries are (almost) always wrong. I actually feel like the answer might as well be a coin toss. I chose to be optimistic simply because over the past century technology has improved the quality of human life.”An executive director for a major global foundation wrote, “The internet will rank among the major technology movements in world history – like gunpowder, indoor plumbing and electricity. And like all of them (with the possible exception of indoor plumbing), its eventual weaponization should have been less of a surprise.”Bryan Johnson, founder and CEO of Kernel, a leading developer of advanced neural interfaces, and OS Fund, a venture capital firm, said, “Humans play prediction games, but the exercise is inherently unproductive. A more useful exercise would be to think about what deeply influential technology can we invest our current time in that will give us the tools we need to thrive in such a highly complex future. Forecasting to 2050 is thought junk food. It is what people most like to daydream about, but is not what we should think about for the health of the species and planet.”Ethics and the bigger picture loom large in the digital futureOptimistic and pessimistic respondents alike agree that human agency will affect the trajectory of digital life. Many respondents said their biggest concern is that everyone’s future in the digital age depends upon the ability of humans to privilege longterm societal advancement over shortterm individual gain.William Uricchio, media scholar and professor of comparative media studies at MIT, commented, “‘Changes in digital life’ are humandriven; technology will only amplify the social structures that created it. My pessimism ensues from the polarization of power, knowledge and wealth that characterizes much of the world at the start of the 21st century, and by the rapidly growing pressures evident in population growth and ecological degradation. Digital technologies have the capacity to be terrific enablers – but the question remains, enablers of what? Of whose vision? Of what values? These, it seems to me, are the defining questions.”Jonathan Swerdloff, consultant and data systems specialist for Driven Inc., wrote, “In the first 50 years of connected internet, humanity rose from no access at all to alwayson, connected devices on their person tracking their life signs. I expect the next 50 years will see devices shrink to tiny sizes and be integrated within our very persons. Then there will be two inflection points. The first will be a split between the technology haves and havenots. Those who have the technology will benefit from it in ways that those who do not are unable to. The more advanced technology gets the more this will be the case. While I would like to believe in a utopic vision of AI fighting climate change and distributing food and wealth so that nobody goes hungry – the ‘Jetsons’ future, if you will – history doesn’t support that view. The second will be a moral evolution. Privacy as conceived in the era before the advent of the internet is nearly dead despite attempts by the European Union and California to hold back the tide. The amount of information people give up about their most private lives is growing rapidly. A commensurate evolution of morals to keep up with the technological developments will be required to keep up or chaos will ensue. Moral structures developed when people could hide their genetics, personal habits and lives at home are not aligned with an alwayson panopticon that knows what someone is doing all day every day. Human nature is nearly immutable – morals will need to catch up…. Anything that happens in society can be magnified by technology. I hope that my pessimism is wrong. There is some evidence of the moral evolution already – Millennials and the generation behind them freely share online in ways which Boomers and Gen X look at as bizarre. Whether that will lead to a significant moral backlash in 50 years remains to be seen.”Susan Mernit, executive director, The Crucible, and cofounder and board member of Hack the Hood, responded, “I am interested in how wearable, embedded and alwayson personal devices and apps will evolve. Tech will become a greater helping and healthmanagement tool, as well as take new forms in terms of training and educating humans. But I wonder how much humans’ passivity will increase in an increasingly monitored and alwayson universe, and I wonder how much the owners and overlords of this tech will use it to segment and restrict people’s knowledge, mobility and choices. I want to believe tech’s expansion and evolution will continue to add value to people’s lives, but I am afraid of how it can be used to segment and restrict groups of people, and how predictive modeling can become a negative force.”Charles Ess, a professor expert in ethics with the Department of Media and Communication, University of Oslo, Norway, said, “My overall sense of the emerging Internet of Things and its subsequent evolutions is of an increasing array of technologies that are ever more enveloping but also ever more invisible (advanced technology is magic, to recall Arthur C. Clarke), thereby making it increasingly difficult for us to critically attend to such new developments and perhaps rechannel or obviate them when ethically/socially indicated.”Stavros Tripakis, an associate professor of computer science at Aalto University (Finland) and adjunct at the University of California, Berkeley, wrote, “Misinformation and lack of education will continue and increase. Policing will also increase. Humanity needs a quantum leap in education (in the broad sense) to escape from the current political and economic state. Fifty years is not enough for this to happen.”Kenneth R. Fleischmann, an associate professor at the University of Texas, Austin School of Information, responded, “The key questions are, ‘Which individuals?’ and ‘Better/worse in which ways?’ The impacts on different people will be different, and each person will interpret these changes differently. One major factor is what people value or consider important in life. If people value privacy and they are subject to a digital panopticon then, in that way, their lives may be worse; however, they also likely value convenience, and may find substantial improvements in that regard. Different people will make that tradeoff differently depending on what they value. So, understanding the impact of the technology is not only about predicting the future of technology, it is also about predicting the future of what we value, and these two considerations are of course mutually constitutive, as technologies are shaped by values, and at the same time, over time (especially generations), technologies shape values.”Justin Reich, executive director of MIT Teaching Systems Lab and research scientist in the MIT Office of Digital Learning, responded, “Shakespeare wrote three kinds of plays: the tragedies where things got worse, the comedies where things got better, and the histories, with a combination of winners and losers. Technological advances do little to change net human happiness, because so much of happiness is determined by relative comparisons with neighbors. The primary determinants of whether life for people improves will be whether we can build robust social institutions that distribute power widely and equally among people, and whether those institutions support meaningful relationships among people.”Michiel Leenaars, director of strategy at NLnet Foundation and director of the Internet Society’s Netherlands chapter, responded, “What the internet will look like in 50 years will greatly depend on how we act today. Tim BernersLee in his 2018 Turing speech referred to the current situation as ‘dystopian,’ and this seems like an adequate overall description. The industry is dominated by extremely pervasive but very profitable business practices that are deeply unethical, driven by perverse shortterm incentives to continue along that path. A dark mirror version of the internet on an extractive crash course with democracy and the wellbeing of humanity at large itself. That is a future I’m not very eager to extrapolate even for another 10 years. My target version of the internet in 50 years – the one I believe is worth pursuing – revolves around open source, open hardware, open content as well as in helping people live meaningful lives supported by continuous education and challenging ideas. Permissionless innovation is a necessary precondition for serving the human potential, but so are critical reflection and a healthy social dialogue avoiding personalized bubbles, AI bias and information overload. The openness of the web and the mobile ecosystem in particular are abysmal, and attention and concentration are endangered human traits. But that can be reversed, I believe. Every day we can start to reimagine and reengineer the internet. The information age can and should be an era that brings out the best in all of us, but this will not happen by itself. So, I hope and believe the internet in 50 years is going to be as challenging as the early internet – and hard work for many people that want to see this future emerge.”Simon Biggs, a professor of interdisciplinary arts at the University of Edinburgh, said, “Given our history as a species, and our current behavio with the internet, I suspect that our activities (within a more advanced form of the internet) will consist of virtual simulated sex (in the form of interactive pornography – so not really sex but powerplay) and killing virtual players in massive online gaming environments (more powerplay). In that sense things will be similar to how they are now. Given current trends it is likely that the internet will no longer be ‘the internet,’ in the sense that it was intended as the network of all networks. Networked information and communications technology will be territorialized, broken up and owned, in walled environments (this process is already well advanced). Access will be privileged, not for the consumer but for the producer. The first period of the internet was marked by a democratization of access to the means of production, but this will not be the case in the future. The vast bulk of internet users will be passive consumers who are offered an illusion of agency in the system to deliver them as a resource to those who profit from consumer playbour. We already see this with Facebook and other companies. The manner in which user data from Facebook and elsewhere has been exploited in the democratic process to affect the outcomes to the benefit of those paying for the data is indicative of where the internet is going. I expect the internet to be far more pervasive than it is today, our experience of our lived life mediated at all times. The only question is to what degree our experiential life will be mediated. I suspect it will be more or less total by 2030. Primarily, my reasoning is predicated on the expectation that human behaviour will lead to negative consequences flowing from our technological augmentation. These consequences could be quite severe. Do I think our survival as a species is threatened by our technological evolution? Yes. Do I think we will survive? Probably, because we are a tenacious animal. Do I think it will be worth surviving in a world like that? Probably not. Do I think the world would be better off if, as a species, we were to not survive? Absolutely. That is one thing we might hope for – that we take ourselves out, become extinct. Even if we are replaced by our machines the world is likely to be a better place without us.”Robert Bell, cofounder of Intelligent Community Forum, had a different view from Biggs, predicting, “We created something that became a monster and then learned to tame the monster.”Jeff Johnson, computer science professor at the University of San Francisco, previously with Xerox, HP Labs and Sun Microsystems, responded that it is important to take a broader view when assessing what may be coming next. He wrote, “Technological change alone will not produce significant change in people’s lives. What happens alongside technological change will affect how technological change impacts society. The future will bring muchimproved speechcontrolled user interfaces, direct braincomputer interfaces, biocomputing, advances in AI and much higher bandwidth due to increases in computer power (resulting from quantum computing). Unless national political systems around the world change in ways to promote more equitable wealth distribution, the future will also bring increased stratification of society, fueled by loss of jobs and decreased access to quality education for lower socioeconomic classes. Finally, rising sea levels and desertification will render large areas uninhabitable, causing huge social migrations and (for some) increased poverty.”An associate professor of computer science at a U.S. university commented, “Humans have adapted poorly to life in a technological society. Think of obesity, time wasted on lowquality entertainments, addictions to a whole range of drugs and more. As the noise in the information stream increases, so does the difficulty for the average person to extract a cohesive life pattern and avoid the land mines of dangerous or unhealthy behaviors. Genetics, cultural change, social and legal structures do not change exponentially, but aggregate knowledge does. This mismatch is a crucial realization. As Reginald Bretnor noted in ‘Decisive Warfare,’ kill ratios for weapons not only increase, but so does their ability to be wielded by the individual. So it is with most things in a technologically advanced society. But have people cultivated the requisite wisdom to use what is available to better themselves? Looking at American society, I would generally conclude not.”The chief marketing officer for a technologybased company said, “I am allin for innovation and improving the standard of living for all humanity. However … we need to become more vigilant about our fascination with technology and selfindulgence. Yes, it does paint a darker picture and forces a more cautious approach, but some of us are required to do this for the sake of a more balanced and fair future for all humanity. I’m one of the lucky ones, born in Europe with a very high standard of living. Same goes for the people behind this research. Let’s be vigilant of our actions and how we shape the future. We have been in a constant battle with nature and resources for the past 100 years. In historical terms it was a momentous leap forward in education, connectivity, traveling, efficiency, etc. But, at the same time, we are all committing an environmental suicide and behave like there is no tomorrow – only the instant pleasure of technology. There will not be a tomorrow if we continue to ignore the cause and effect of our unipolar obsession with technology and selfindulgence.”Miguel MorenoMuñoz, a professor of philosophy specializing in ethics, epistemology and technology at the University of Granada, Spain, said, “Mobility and easy access to affordable databases and service platforms for most citizens will become more important; egovernment systems, transparency and accountability will be improved. The development of certain applications, if paralleled by the development of new types of intellectual property licensing and management systems, can revolutionize education and access to knowledge and culture. But this requires an open framework for international cooperation, which in many ways is now under threat.”Sam Gregory, director of WITNESS and digital human rights activist, responded, “My perspective comes from considering the internet and civic activism. We are at a turning point in terms of whether the internet enables a greater diversity of civic voices, organizing and perspectives, or whether it is largely a controlled and monitored surveillance machine. We are also swiftly moving toward a world of pervasive and persistent witnessing where everything is instantly watched and seen with ubiquitous cameras embedded in our environment and within our personal technologies, and where we are able to engage with these realities via telepresence, copresence and vicarious virtual experience. This is a doubleedged sword. The rise of telepresence robots will enable us to experience realities we could never otherwise physically experience. This remote experiencing has the potential to enable the best and the worst in our natures. On the one hand, we will increasingly have the ability to deliberately turn away from experiencing the unmitigated pain of the world’s suffering. We might do this for the best of reasons – to protect our capacity to keep feeling empathy closer to home and to exercise what is termed ‘empathy avoidance,’ a psychological defense mechanism which involves walling ourselves up from responding emotionally to the suffering of others. We may also enter the middle ground that Aldous Huxley captured in ‘Brave New World,’ where narcotizing multisensory experiences, ‘feelies,’ distract and amuse rather than engage people with the world. Here, by enabling people to experience multiple dimensions of others’ crises viscerally but not meaningfully, we perpetuate existing tendencies in activism to view other people’s suffering as a theatrum mundi played out for our vicarious tears shed in the safety of our physically walledoff and secure spaces. On the other hand, we will increasingly be presented with opportunities through these technologies to directly engage with and act upon issues that we care about. As we look at the future of organizing and the need to better support ontheground activism, this becomes critical to consider how to optimize. We also have a potential future where governments will thoroughly coopt these shared virtual/physical spaces, turning virtual activism into a governmentcoopted ‘Pokémon Go,’ a humanidentity search engine, scouring virtual and physical spaces in search of dissidents. In a brighter future, virtual/physical copresence has the exciting potential to be a massive amplifier of civic solidarity across geographical boundaries, defying the power of national governments to unjustly dictate to their citizens.”Marc Rotenberg, director of a major digital civil rights organization, commented, “There is no question that the internet has transformed society. We live in a world today far more interconnected than in the past. And we have access almost instantaneously to a vast range of information and services. But the transformation has not been without cost. Concentrations of wealth have increased. Labor markets have been torn apart. Journalism is on the decline, and democratic institutions are under attack. And there is a growing willingness to sacrifice the free will of humanity for the algorithms of machine. I do not know if we will survive the next 50 years unless we are able to maintain control of our destinies.”Adam Popescu, a writer who contributes frequently to the New York Times, Washington Post, Bloomberg Businessweek, Vanity Fair and the BBC, wrote, “Either we’ll be in space by then, or back in the trees. Pandora’s box may finally burn us. No one knows what will happen in five years, let alone 50. It’s now obvious that the optimism with which we ran headfirst into the web was a mistake. The dark side of the web has emerged, and it’s come bringing the alltoohuman conditions the web’s wunderkinds claimed they would stamp out. Given the direction in the last five years, the weaponization of the web, it will go more and more in this direction, which ultimately means regulation and serious change from what it is now. Maybe we won’t be on the web at all in that period – it will probably be far more integrated into our daytoday lives. It’s a science fiction film in waiting. With email, constanton schedules and a death of social manners, I believe we have reached, or are close to, our limit for technological capacity. Our addictions to our smartphones have sired a generation that is afraid of facetoface interaction and is suffering in many ways psychologically and socially and even physically in ways that we’ve yet to fully comprehend. This will impact society, not for the better. Manners, mood, memory, basic quality of life – they’re all affected negatively.”Policy changes today will lay the foundation of the internet of tomorrowMany respondents to this canvassing described the next several years as a pivotal time for government regulation, adjustments in technology company policies and other reforms. They say such decisions being made in the next few years are likely to set the course for digital life over the next half century. Some warn that regulation can be more harmful than helpful if its potential effects are not carefully preassessed.Mark Surman, executive director of the Mozilla Foundation, responded, “I see two paths over the next 50 years. On the first path, power continues to consolidate in the hands a few companies and countries. The world ends up balkanized, organized into blocks, and societies are highly controlled and unequal. On the other path, we recognize that the current consolidation of power around a few platforms threatens the open global order we’ve built, and we enact laws and build technology that promotes continued competition, innovation and diversity.”Laurie Orlov, principal analyst at Aging in Place Technology Watch, wrote, “The internet, so cool at the beginning, so destructive later, is like the introduction of the wheel – it is a basis and foundation for the good, the bad and the ugly. As the wheel preceded the interstate highway system, so the internet has become the information highway system. And, just like roads, it will require more standards, controls and oversight than it has today.”Juan Ortiz Freuler and Nnenna Nwakanma of the Web Foundation wrote, “Allowing people to increasingly spend time in digital environments can limit unexpected social encounters, which are key to the development of empathy and the strengthening of the social fibres. In a similar way that gentrification of physical neighborhoods often creates barriers for people to understand the needs and wants of others, digital environments can thicken the contours of these bubbles in which different social groups inhabit. In parallel, this process enables a great degree of power to be amassed by the actors that design and control these virtual environments. Whereas in the past there was concern with the power of media framing, in the future the new brokers of information will have more control over the information people receive and receive a steady stream of data regarding how individuals react to these stimuli. It is becoming urgent to develop processes to ensure these actors operate in a transparent way. This includes the values they promote are in line with those of the communities they serve and enabling effective control by individuals over how these systems operate. Government needs to update the institutions of democracy if it wants to remain relevant.”Leonardo Trujillo, a research professor in computing sciences at the Instituto Tecnológico de Tijuana, Mexico, responded, “I am worried that the digital ecosystems being developed today will limit people’s access to information, increase surveillance and propaganda, and push toward limiting social interactions and organization, particularly if current policy trends continue.”Joly MacFie, president of the Internet Society’s New York Chapter, commented, “Today will be seen as an inflection point – the end on the initial ‘open’ era, and the start of the second.”A professional working on the setting of web standards wrote, “Looking ahead 50 years, I expect that AI will either be more evenly and equitably integrated throughout societies, or that there will have been AIdriven disasters that jeopardize human and other animal life, or may have already destroyed life. On the more positive side, and focusing on medical research, I would expect AIdriven research and simulation of artificial life including cognition would have provided the tools to cure most disease, as well as to advance human capabilities through bionic augmentation. On the negative side, I would expect that AI combined with rapidly increasing capabilities of bioengineering, and with persistent sociopathological tendencies of a small minority of the population, could have led to uncontained AIdriven cyberwarfare or biological devastation. A key determining factor differentiating these two futures might be the magnitude of social investment in a robust ethical framework for AI applications, and continued emphasis on development of a just society, with social safety nets, to help mitigate the risks of development of sociopathic behaviors that would be especially dangerous with easy access to AI.”Benjamin Shestakofsky, an assistant professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania specializing in digital technology’s impacts on work, said, “1) The ‘Uberization’ of everything will not proceed as rapidly, nor as evenly, as many now predict. Platform companies that facilitate the exchange of goods and services will continue to confront the reality that funneling idiosyncratic human activity through digital platforms is a complicated and costly endeavor. 2) Employers will continue to increase their use of connected technologies to monitor their workforces. However, workers will also continue to find ways to subvert employer surveillance and control. In many workplaces, employers will find it difficult to convert big data about employee activities into actionable insights. Nonetheless, legislators should act to limit the scope of employee surveillance and threats to employees’ privacy.”A professor of information science wrote, “When I’m feeling dystopian, I see a world that looks a little too much like ‘Mr. Robot’ or ‘Person of Interest,’ with government or private organizations knowing too much about us and having too much control over us. I’d like to believe that interconnectivity could, instead, provide us with more ubiquitous access to information and with the ability to establish connections and deliver services across space and time.”Stephen McDowell, a professor of communication at Florida State University expert in new media and internet governance, commented, “The area of law and policy is already showing some major stresses in dealing with networked connected data systems, apart from AI systems. Law and policy is often dealt with on a casebycase and issuebyissue basis, treating questions and legal traditions and precedents in isolation. These issues might include speech, privacy, property, informed consent, competition and security. This has weaknesses already in a networked world where large teach firms offer platforms supporting a wide range of services and track user behavior across services…. If we add systems with more learning and predictive power to this mix, it will be important to develop new concepts that go beyond the segmented approach to law and policy we are trying to use to govern internetbased interactions presently. We need to grapple with the totality of a relationship between a user and a service provider, rather than react to isolated incidents and infringements. We need to address the tradeoff between offering free services and users allowing data to be collected with minimal understanding of their consent. We should also consider stronger limits on the use of personal data in machine learning and predictive modeling. Companies that automate functions to save on input costs and to allow services to be offered at scale to reap the private benefits of innovation must also take on responsibility for unintended consequences and possibilities they have created.”Toby Walsh, a professor of AI at the University of New South Wales, Australia, said, “Like the Industrial Revolution before it, the Internet Revolution will be seen to have improved people’s social, economic and political lives, but only after regulation and controls were introduced to guard against the risks.”Jonathan Taplin, director emeritus at the University of Southern California’s Annenberg Innovation Lab, wrote, “The answer to this question depends totally on the willingness of regulators and politicians to rethink their ideas about antitrust policies in the digital age. If current consumer welfare standards continue to be used, the existing internet monopolies (Facebook, Google and Amazon) will get more dominant in the AI age. They would be bigger and have more data than any government or other mediating institution. They would be beyond control. They would determine our future and politics would be of little use…. I can envision a world in which technology is a boon to human progress, but it cannot come about as long as the internet is dominated worldwide by three firms (with two Chinese competitors in Asia). It is possible that the current efforts around blockchain or the new work of Tim BernersLee may lead to a more decentralized web. Count me as skeptical.”Doug Schepers, chief technologist at Fizz Studio, said “The technology is less important than the laws, policies and social norms that we as a society will adopt to adapt to it.”Randy Goebel, professor of computing science and developer of the University of Alberta’s partnership with DeepMind, wrote, “A challenge for an increasingly connected and informed world is that of distinguishing aggregate from individual. ‘For the greater good’ requires an everevolving notion and consensus about what the ‘greater’ is. Just like seat belt laws are motivated by a complex balance of public good (property and human costs) we will have to evolve a planetwide consensus on what is appropriate for ‘great’ good.”William Dutton, professor of media and information policy at Michigan State University, commented, “We are still in a transitional period, when so much of our time and effort is focused on getting connected and using technical advances. I could imagine so many devices that complicate contemporary life, such as the mobile smartphone, disappearing as they become unnecessary for accomplishing their functions. That said, the future will depend heavily on wise policy responses, even more so than technical advances.”Luis Pereira, associate professor of electronics and nanotechnologies, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Portugal, responded, “By virtue of the interconnection of the new tools there will be widespread data collection on people, their activities, connections, the environment and the Internet of Things. There will be increased promotion of gigeconomy platforms and the focused targeting of individuals with consumerism and ideology. Unless moral values and ethical rules are put in place for application designers, product sellers, data users and autonomous software and robots, people will be forced into cluster drawers. A competitive and increasing AI race for control of profits and policies will sprout, including a digital weapons race, unless a way is found to promote collaboration instead, on the basis of regulated and overseen commitments (similar to global climate agreements) for the benefit of humanity and the planet. Certification methods for software that complies with such commitments need to be developed. People will be teaching machines how to replace themselves and others at increasing levels of cognition. Security will be a major concern. Technological developments will surpass human adaptability and raise issues we do not have the wherewithal to comprehend or address.”Hari Shanker Sharma, an expert in nanotechnology and neurobiology at Uppsala University, Sweden, said, “Technology is a tool for making life better. A goal of life is happiness, satisfaction. Both require a set of values to remain good or become evil. The internet has brought the world together. Apps are tools to perform tasks easily. The Internet of Things will connect all living and nonliving things. But the dark side of human nature – the hunger for power, possession and control that has brought wars and terrorism – cannot be corrected by the internet or apps. There is a need to identify the evil in human nature and protect the simple, good and wellmeaning from becoming its prey. Evil often moves ahead of good. Perhaps it can be predicted by features that check the psychology of individuals, crime records and other past behaviors to block certain actions or warn others. Biometric identification is already used for esecurity – for instance, facial recognition – and it might be possible to have biofeature readers to detect the evilminded or those who are likely to become evilminded and put safety checks in place at places of danger. Expert systems for face reading, feature reading, nature reading and analysis might give warning. Trackers could be established for isolated nodes and feed details to lawenforcement agencies. No evilmonger would agree on such checks and caution, but people need to be protected from online financial fraud, rapes by social media stalkers, murders by esystem users, etc., that unchecked because no efficient warning system exists. The law today is not helpful. Ecrime should be dealt with and punished without boundary. The internet needs global law and global governance to become user friendly. Global connectivity becomes a tool of criminals while those who are simply good have no power to handle evil.”Amy Webb, founder of the Future Today Institute and professor of strategic foresight at New York University, commented, “I hope historians’ verdict 50 years from now will be that we made the right choice in the years 20182020 to rethink access to the internet, data ownership and algorithmic transparency, thus setting all of humanity on a better course for the future.”A director for an internet registry responded, “There will be ongoing radical development by which biology, at physical and molecular/genetic scales, will become integrated with digital technology. We can assume that this will be pervasive throughout society, but both the applications and the costs and conditions under which they may be accessed are unpredictable. The greatest determining factor in the overall result will be political rather than technological, with a range of outcomes between utopian and utterly dystopian.”Andrea Romaoli Garcia, an international lawyer active in internet governance discussions, commented, “The cloud is a new world and is navigating in international waters. And because it is new, laws must follow the innovation. However, I have watched all countries make laws with their minds focused on traditional models of regulation. This is wrong. Laws must be international. The interpretation of the innovation scenario should be applied by introductory vehicles of new laws. The word ‘disruptive’ must be interpreted to apply to new laws. When we use old models of laws and only we are doing changes to force fit into the new model of doing business or everyday life, we are creating a crippled creature that moves in a disgusting way. I nominated this as a ‘jurisdicial Frankenstein.’ This means laws that will apply to the cloud environment but will never be perfect, and legal security will be threatened.”Stuart A. Umpleby, a professor and director of the research program in social and organizational learning at George Washington University, wrote, “The Congressional Office of Technology Assessment was eliminated by Newt Gingrich in order to put companies, rather than Congress, in charge of technology. Given unrestrained advancements in digital and biological technology, we now need such an office more than ever.”Divina FrauMeigs, professor of media sociology at Sorbonne Nouvelle University, France, and UNESCO chair for sustainable digital development, responded, “Currently there is no governance of the internet proper. Cases like Cambridge Analytica are going to become more and more common. They will reveal that the internet cannot be entrusted uniquely to monopoly corporations and their leaders who are not willing to consider the unintended consequences of their decisions, which are mostly marketcompetitiondriven). A global internet governance system needs to be devised, with multistakeholder mechanisms, that include the voices of the public. It should incorporate agile consultations on many topics so that individuals can have an influence over how their digital presence can affect, or not, their real life.”Jennifer J. Snow, an innovation officer with the U.S. Air Force, wrote, “The internet will continue to evolve in surprising ways. New forms of governance, finance and religion will spring up that transcend physical Westphalian boundaries and will pose challenges to existing statebased governance structures. The internet will fracture again as those founders who seek to return it to its original positive uses establish and control their own ‘walled gardens,’ inviting in only a select few to join them and controlling specific portions of the Net separately from nationstates. New policy and regulations will be required to address these changes and the challenges that come with them. New types of warfare will arise from internet evolutions but also new opportunities to move society forward together in a positive manner. States will no longer have the premium on power and nonstate actors, corporations and groups will be able to wield power at the state, national and regional level in new and unexpected ways. It will be a disruptive time and dangerous if not navigated smartly but may also result in some of the greatest advances yet for humanity.”Peng Hwa Ang, professor of communications at Nanyang Technological University and author of “Ordering Chaos: Regulating the Internet,” commented, “We know that the future is not linear, which means that to be accurate I will be painting with broad brush strokes. 1) Laws – It is finally being recognized that laws are essential for the smooth functioning of the internet. This is a sea change from the time when the internet was introduced to the public more than 20 years ago. In the future, governments will be increasingly feeling empowered to regulate the laws to their own political, cultural, social and economic ends. That is, countries will regulate the internet in ways that express their own sovereignty. There will be a large area of commonality. But there will also be a sizable area where the laws diverge across borders. 2) Within 50 years, there should be one common trade agreement for the digital economy. It is difficult to see China carrying on its own terms. Instead, it is more likely that China will allow foreign companies to operate with little censorship provided that these companies do not ‘intrude’ into the political arena. 3) It is difficult to see Facebook continuing to exist in 50 years. 4) The harm from being always on will be recognized, and so users will spend less time online. Some of the time currently spent by users will be taken over by AI bots.”Devin Fidler, futurist and founder of Rethinkery Labs, commented, “Over the last 50 years we have built a basic nervous system. Now, the challenge is to evolve it to best support human society. A great place to start is with the many positive and negative externalities that have been documented around network deployment. Simply amplifying the positive benefits to society for network activity and curbing network activities that impose an unfunded burden on society as a whole may be a great framework for creating a networked society that lives up to the enormous potential these tools unlock. Expect increased regulation worldwide as societies struggle to balance this equation in different ways.”David A. Banks, an associate research analyst with the Social Science Research Council, said, “The character and functionality of the internet will continue to follow the political and social whims of the major power players in the industry. If these companies continue to engage in monopolistic practices without competent and reflective regulation, then we can expect an ossified and highly commercialized digital network. If something major changes then we can expect something radically different.”Luis German Rodriguez Leal, teacher and researcher at the Universidad Central de Venezuela and consultant on technology for development, said, “The new internet will be blended with humanmachine interfaces, AI, blockchain, big data, mobile platforms and data visualization as maindriven technologies. They will set up a robust and widely accessible Internet of Things. On the other hand, these will imply a disruptive way of facing everyday activities such as education, government, health, business or entertainment, among many others. Therefore, innovative regulation frameworks are urgently required for each of them.”Julian Jones, a respondent who provided no identifying details, said, “Data security will be vital as is privacy. It is essential that individuals can have more control over the context in which their data is used. In the absence of this legislation the consequences for society could be catastrophic.”Fred Baker, independent networking technologies consultant, longtime leader in the Internet Engineering Task Force and engineering fellow with Cisco, commented, “I suspect that the expansion of telephone technology and law will inform this discussion. The United States’ 1934 Communications Act was designed to tame a regulated monopoly carrier and prevent the worst of what that carrier might do with the technology at its disposal. Over the past few decades, the Federal Communications Commission has tried to interpret the internet through the lens of that regulation. That has failed, for the most part, for at least two reasons. First, the internet is not a regulated monopoly. It is a set of companies trying to accomplish various things, some of which (notably Google, Facebook and their kin) have become very powerful and may require appropriate regulation or regulatory action to steer in the public interest. A law designed to regulate a monopoly, and experience with it, may inform a future law, but is not a substitute for it. Second, the FCC  tries desperately to understand the internet to be one two things: a way to carry messages from ingress to egress without inspecting or changing them (a telecom service), or a way to access an application (an information service). It is neither, and it is both. Until we have a law that can follow that difference in service model in the internet, we will find differences between the internet as implemented and the internet as regulated.”Jennifer Jarratt, owner of Leading Futurists consultancy, commented, “We need new regulation now that can protect users and the digital world from themselves and itself. With those we could also have a fully digital government that might be able to handle some of the planet’s big problems. Expect also new activism and new social orders. In the next 50 years, technological change will produce significant change – but maybe not as much as we expect or would like. The world will have become more difficult to live in by then, so we’d better hope tech has some answers.”Oscar Gandy, emeritus professor of communication at the University of Pennsylvania, responded, “The whole notion of connectivity is bound to be redefined in the nottoodistant future. When we extend the processes through which miniaturization married with processing speed, and divorce from personal devicebased memory, the possibilities for connectivity/interactivity/control, and what we mean by intelligence are beyond the ability of any but authors of science fiction novels (I guess that excludes those among us who consider themselves to be ‘futurists’). I think the most interesting possibilities are those that actually eliminate (or seem to eliminate) the need to possess devices to make use of what we currently refer to as connectivity. This means that all we need is access to the intelligent network – a level of access that will not require manual action of any kind; I can even imagine that use of this network will not even depend upon requests made vocally – thought will be enough. So, I don’t know what the requisite ‘interface’ will be, but I believe that something akin to sensors interacting with implanted chips will be commonplace, without the chips, with sensing of the brain from what we would characterize as a reasonable conversational distance from the sensor(s) would be sufficient. Of course, for a privacy scholar, this is quite a leap from our present thinking about access to and control over our private thoughts. This will, therefore, be an area of much work with regard to law, regulation and control of these developments and their use by others for specified legitimate purposes.”Jennifer King, director of privacy at Stanford Law School’s Center for Internet and Society, said, “The last 10 years have demonstrated the risks with unleashing the internet on society with little accounting for public responsibility. I predict in Western democracies, we will see a greater push for more regulation and corporate responsibility for the effects of technology. In totalitarian states, we will see concentrated social control through technology. And across the board, I suspect it will become increasingly difficult to live a life outside of the reach of technology.”Tracey P. Lauriault, assistant professor of critical media and big data in the School of Journalism and Communication at Carleton University, commented, “We are already seeing platform convergence and the resale of platform data to third parties with whom we do not have a direct relationship. We already know that data brokerage firms are not regulated and there is very little regulation when it comes to credit scoring companies. In addition, we are already beginning to see erroneous social science hiding behind algorithms, not unlike what we saw at the beginning of the Enlightenment, and we have not even begun to address the socialtechnical and political outcomes of junk AI/social sciences (i.e., finding gay people or criminals in facial recognition – harkening on the bad old days of eugenics and skull measuring). The European Union’s General DataProtection Regulation on the right to access information will help, but, for the moment, there is little individual and aggregate protection. Also, will private sector companies who aggregate, buy and sell our data, who create individual data shadows or data doppelgangers that become our representatives in this data world, know more about us than we know about ourselves? What influence will they have on larger political decisionmaking? Decisionmaking over our lives? How do we correct these systems when they are wrong? How do we adjudicate and context egregious ‘databased decisions’ in the courts with current intellectual property law? And what of personal sovereignty and state sovereignty? What of other decisionmaking systems such as social scores in China? How with the poor, elderly and disabled be protected from automated decisionmaking about social welfare and supports if they do not have assurances that the decisionmaking about them are correct? And what of junk coding that persists and does not get removed and just keeps generating bad decisions? Who audits? Who is accountable? And will these become the new governors? The future is here and we do not know how to deal with it. The EU is beginning to address these and holding these companies to account, but our citizens in North America are not as well versed, and arguably, our governors seem generally less interested in our wellbeing, or perhaps are more ignorant of the implications.”Andreas Kirsch, a fellow at Newspeak House, formerly with Google and DeepMind in Zurich and London, wrote, “Regulation will force open closed platforms. Information will flow more freely between services. Internet services will become more decentralized again as network bandwidths will not be sufficient for the data volumes that users will produce by then. Applications and services will not be coupled to devices anymore but will follow us freely between different contexts (shared car, home, work, mobile devices).”Anonymous respondents said:“It is not about the technology itself … it is about the lack of regulation by the institutions and their lack of understanding of the general public.”“With each advance there are concerns about privacy and political abuses and these will need to be addressed with technology and with innovation in policy and laws.”“The executives of Facebook will be indicted and their trial will begin the process of reform. Once we get over the idea that tech executives can commit heinous crimes and we hold them accountable, the tech world will begin the process of change.”Internet everywhere, like the air you breatheWhen asked to look ahead to 2069, respondents largely agreed that connectivity will be both more pervasive and less visible. A large share predicted that humans and networked devices will communicate seamlessly and the concept of “going online” will seem archaic. They anticipate that the internet will “exist everywhere,” turning planet Earth into a cybersphere where connectivity is as natural as breathing.Alf Rehn, a professor of innovation, design and management in the school of engineering at the University of Southern Denmark, commented, “The curious thing will in all likelihood be how unaware we’ll be of the internet in 50 years. Today, the only time we really reflect on electricity and plumbing is when they break down. At other times, they’re just there, as selfevident as air. I believe we will look to digital tools in much the same way. We walk into a room and turn on our digital streams much like we turn on a light. We wonder how much money is in our bank account, and just ask the air, and the wall replies (‘You’re slightly overdrawn. Shouldn’t have bought those shoes. I told you.’). We start cooking, and our kitchen gently suggests we stop doing the Thai fish stew, because we forgot to tell the kitchen we wanted to do that, so it hasn’t ordered fresh lemongrass. We’ll do a Mediterranean trout dish instead. The only time we reflect over any of this is when the Net, for whatever reason, cuts out. It usually lasts only a few minutes, but for those minutes we become like children, stumbling around unsure what to do when not surrounded by endlessly helpful technology.”Scott Burleigh, software engineer and intergalactic internet pioneer, wrote, “Machinetomachine network communications will become ubiquitous, and computing hardware will have access to all human information; to the extent that hardware becomes intelligent and volitional it will replace humans in essentially all spheres. Humans’ ability to benefit from this advance will be limited mainly by our inability to come up with adequate interfaces – graphical user interfaces are a dead end, voice is simply annoying and nobody types fast enough. The hardware will know everything and won’t be able to convey it to us.”Adam Powell, senior fellow at the University of Southern California Annenberg Center on Communication Leadership and Policy, wrote, “Predicting 50 years out is inherently risky (see all of those flying cars overhead?). But, barring a catastrophe – epidemic, war – extrapolating from recent history suggests the internet will become more pervasive, more powerful and less expensive. Think of electricity, or electric motors; they are ubiquitous, noticed mainly when they cease to function.”John Laird, a professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Michigan, responded, “The internet infrastructure will disappear from public view. It will be ubiquitous, always on, always available and invisible. Access will be worldwide. What will change will be our means of interacting with it. Augmented reality will be ubiquitous (much sooner than 50 years), with essentially everything interconnected, including the human body – and possibly the human mind. There are many risks, and many ways in which ubiquitous connectivity can and will be abused, but overall, it will enhance people’s lives. We will go through ups and downs, but there will be significant advances in security.”A senior data analyst and systems specialist expert in complex networks responded, “This is an area where I think a few science fiction writers, such as John Brunner, have seen the future. The future version of the internet will be more ubiquitous and more seamless (building on the Internet of Things), but it will also be much less secure, with people suffering damage from various kinds of hacking on a daily basis. However, this lack of security will gradually become the ‘new normal,’ and the outrage will fade.”Nigel Hickson, an expert on technology policy development for ICANN based in Brussels, responded, “I do not think we will be talking about the internet in 50 years’ time. As the internet becomes ubiquitous it is simply an enabling force like air or water; it’s what we do with it that becomes more important – is the power used for good, to improve society, enhance freedom and choice, or is it used to enslave? The internet cannot be divorced from the progress of society itself. In an enlightened democracy the effect of the internet will have been positive, enhancing freedom and choice, but in a dictatorship the opposite could well be true.”From the ‘Internet of Things’ to the ‘Internet of Everything’In 1982, graduate students in the computer science department at Carnegie Mellon University connected a Coke vending machine to the ARPANET, creating the first “smart device.” The rise of networked devices, collectively known as the “Internet of Things,” was a dominant theme in the 2014 Pew Research CenterImagining the Internet report on the Impacts of the Internet by 2025. When asked four years later to look ahead to 2069, these expert respondents predicted the further rise of networked devices and extended the concept to include the technical hybridization of the natural world.Edson Prestes, a professor and director of robotics at the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, wrote, “I believe the internet will no longer exist in the way we see today. It will not be possible to see the internet as a huge network of connected devices, but instead it will be something unique that works in a pervasive and transparent way – like air that exists everywhere so we forget about its existence. We will use the environment to transmit information, via plants, soil, water, etc. We will develop new processes to take advantage of all resources available in the environment, e.g., we might use biochemical processes of plants to give support to data processing. Humans will be naturally adaptable to this pervasive environment. Some people will use prostheses to get/transmit/visualize and process information, maybe plugged directly in the brain and working in unison with the brain lobes. The information received from the environment can be seen as a ‘new sensory input.’ Thus, all interfaces and tools will be totally reshaped: no mouse, no menus, no ‘blue screens of death.’ Others, from the ‘old school,’ will use plugandplay wearable gadgets.”Valarie Bell, a computational social scientist at the University of North Texas, commented, “In the coming decades, we’ll have one ‘device’ if any at all. Everything will be voiceprintactivated and/or bioscanneractivated (retinal scan) so passwords and login details become irrelevant. This will make identity theft more difficult but not impossible, as no matter what system or technology people create, other people will immediately develop ways to deviate or breach it. All domiciles’ powered devices will likely be solarpowered or powered in a way other than 20th century electricity. Personal credit cards, driver’s licenses and other portable documentation that you’d carry in your wallet would become synced to a single cloudbased account accessible via bioscannable systems. To buy groceries, simply use your home grocery ‘app’ to open your account as your pantry, freezer, and fridge order what you’re out of. Then robots will pack your order and selfdriving cars with robot delivery staff will restock your kitchen. Later, groceries will appear in your kitchen in much the same way Capt. Kirk and Mr. Spock used to beam up to the Enterprise on ‘Star Trek.’ Instead of you teaching your young children to read, tie their shoes, do their homework or clean their room, aids like Alexa that are more developed and can operate in multiple rooms of the house will do those things. People continue to abdicate their duties and responsibilities to devices and machines as we’ve become more selfish and selfobsessed. Social networking sites like Facebook will be holographic. People will likely have one or more implants to allow them to access the internet and to access whatever the future computer will be. People won’t type on computers. Perhaps you’ll be able to think what you want to type and your system will type it for you while you eat lunch, watch TV, walk in the park or ride in your selfdriving car. It’s also important to remember that past projections from 50 years ago never predicted the internet but did predict lots of technology that even now we still don’t have. So we can expect the same with our predictions.”Stephen Abram, principal at Lighthouse Consulting Inc., wrote, “We will be well beyond apps and the web in 50 years. The networked information, entertainment and social world will be fully integrated into biology and networked appliances (not toasters but a full range of new appliances that may be standalone like Google Home but are more likely fully integrated devices into architecture and spaces).”Lee McKnight, associate professor, School of Information Studies, Syracuse University, commented, “The internet will reach close to 100% of humans, forests, fields and streams, as well as most nonhuman species, in 2069. The Internet of Things will grow to trillions of things – and all factories, cities and communities…. I do expect popup networks will permit people even in the most remote locations, or communities with limited means, to access and share services and internet bandwidth from literally anywhere on this planet, as well as from our Mars colonies and moon bases. What, you thought there would be just one? Forecasting the way we interact with software and hardware is too limited a starting point, as we must assume biochemistry (wetware) will also increasingly take its place in humanmachine interaction environments and platforms. While science fiction is comfortable imagining all kinds of scenarios, the futurerealist in me can only see good, bad and ugly wetware interacting with all of us, at all times, in 2069.”Mícheál Ó Foghlú, engineering director and DevOps Code Pillar at Google, Munich, said, “Looking forward 50 years is almost impossible. I think the biggest trend we can anticipate from today’s frame is that the huge increase in machinetomachine intercommunication, the Internet of Things, will transform the landscape. This will mean all electronic devices will have some form of builtin intelligence and many systems will layer on top of this massively interconnected intelligent mesh.”Peter Eachus, director of psychology and public health at the University of Salford, UK, responded, “The most fundamental change will be the way in which we interact with this connected technology. There won’t be tablets or smartphones or screens. We will be able to just think of a question and the answer will immediately come to mind! The Mindternet is the future!”A professor and director at a major U.S. university said, “While the Internet of Things will be touted as timesaving and laborsaving it will present additional challenges due to distraction and reduce the quality of intrapersonal relations in addition to adding security vulnerabilities.”A member of the editorial board of the ACM Journal for Autonomous and Adaptive Systems commented, “I envision billions of devices, objects locally interacting with each other, learning from their activities, usages and users’ feedback and providing instant, ondemand services not precoded or predesigned. These services are the result of collective interactions happening locally with no central servers. Ethics and privacy  granted by default. When a user’s request or need cannot be met, devices/objects provide themselves the missing software (selfcoding) or request any missing hardware.”Additional anonymous respondents said they expect:“We will be much less aware of the internet because it will be mostly seamlessly woven into our everyday lives.”“A total integration of human inputs (perceptions) and outputs (actions) with the internet and the objects and tools around them.”“Free internet access worldwide will be regarded as a basic human right.”“People will be seamlessly and continuously interconnected without having to use a device of any kind.”“Everything will be stored in cloud storage. Sensors will be everywhere, from parking lots to agricultural fields.”“More and more of our spheres – even our bodies – will be more and more integrated into the network.”“There will be a cashless society. Eshopping will dominate people’s lives. The Internet of Things will become a part of us – embedded, for instance, in clothes, thermoses, heating systems, etc.”“Due to the lack of transparency and understanding of algorithmic systems and their owners, humans’ individual autonomy and agency is going to decrease.”“More connected objects and connected experiences will allow to get over the digital divide and allow everyone to profit from the digital lifestyle. At the same time advances in green tech will also allow the connectivity not to be made at the expense of the environment.”“Your report card could be connected to, say, a restaurant’s app which will make reservations for you when you get good grades.”It will be impossible to unplugA share of respondents explored the possibilities and challenges of living in a fully networked world where it is difficult, or even impossible, to disconnect. The following comments illuminate some of their expectations in the future of constantly connected life.Steven Polunsky, director of the Alabama Transportation Policy Research Center, University of Alabama, said, “We all know where this is going. We are at the earliest stages of making devices like electric and water meters ‘smart’ and integrating home accessories with internet functionality. The issue is whether people will be allowed, by regulation or by practical exercise, to opt out, and what the effects of that action will be, as well as what efforts will be required to bring services to those at the fringes. Does government have an obligation, such as led to the creation of the Rural Electrification Administration or Essential Air Service, that extends to the requirement or provision of broadband and beyond to the services it enables?”Helena Draganik, a professor at the University of Gdansk, Poland, responded, “The rules/law of internet communication will be unified between many countries, which will limit the freedom of expression. There will grow to be even more dependence upon big platforms (e.g., Facebook) and a deepening of the monetization of our customs and habits. The marketing industry will grow. The internet will just be one more, marketingdependent medium – as press or TV. Yes, in the future there will be many information technology and artificial intelligence applications and commodities to simplify our lives. But it is possible that we will not be able to function properly without them.”An expert on converging technologies at for a defense institute wrote, “The internet 50 years from now will look nothing like it does today. Physical infrastructure will be entirely pervasive and wireless (perhaps nonelectronic) and digital elements will be directly interfaced with human brains. And the minds of different individuals may be directly linked. This will be a new era for humankind, which is difficult to hypothesize about.”Christopher Yoo, a professor of law, communication and computer and information science at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, responded, “If I had to predict (and undertake the concomitant risk and inevitable likelihood that some of these predictions will turn out to be wrong), I would expect more users to become increasingly reliant on their mobile devices and to rely on them for mobile payments and other functions. Just as cloud computing disintermediated PC operating systems and created new key intermediaries, such as hypervisor leader VMWare, these new functions will shake up existing industries and inevitably displace incumbents that are too slow to innovate.”Nancy Greenwald, a respondent who provided no identifying details, wrote, “I started on the early internet in 198384 on ‘Dialog,’ with a dialup connection. Now I talk with my devices, giving instructions, dictating, etc. What I expect to see is a growing number of tasks we can complete through the internet, continual increases in collaborative platforms with an increase in a greatly improved ‘open API’ type of program integration, and an increase in the ways we connect with the technology (our wearable technology is crude) so that we are continuously connected. I already have the feeling that one of my senses is cut off when I am unable to connect to the internet. I expect that sense of enabling/dependence to increase.”A wellknown writer and editor who documented the early boom of the internet in the 1990s wrote, “We will take omniscience over the state of the world for granted because we will be connected to everything, always. We are therefore all the more likely to be distracted from asking questions that really matter. On balance, greater knowledge leads to greater happiness – though there is a lot of distraction to get through along the way.”A professor of electronic engineering and innovation studies who is based in Europe commented, “A radical change will occur in the way the people see humanmachine and humanhuman interactions. Humans will be entirely dependent on information systems, just like our generation got used to being dependent on electricity or transport systems. Also, expect radical innovations in neural connection (i.e., human brains integrated with computers). The effects of this remain highly unpredictable.”Slowing the pace of internet innovationAlthough a significant majority of survey respondents expected the rate of technological advancement to remain steady or increase in the next 50 years, a vocal minority argued that humanity may be entering a coolingoff period when it comes to digital evolution.Lee Smolin, a professor at Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics and Edge.org contributor, responded, “Many technologies evolve fast until they reach functional maturity, after which how they function for us evolves slowly. I suspect the internet has already reached, or will shortly reach, that state.”Ken Birman, a professor in the department of computer science at Cornell University, responded, “Technology booms take the form of ‘S’ curves. For any technical area, we see a slow uptake, then a kind of exponential in which the limits seem infinite, but by then things are often already slowing down. For me, the current boom in cloud computing has created the illusion of unbounded technical expansion in certain domains, but in fact we may quickly reach a kind of steady state. By 2050, I think the focus will have shifted to robotics in agriculture and perhaps climate control, space engineering, revolutionary progress in brain science and other biological sciences. This is not to say that we will cease to see stunning progress in the internet and cloud, but rather that the revolutions we are experiencing today will have matured and yielded to other revolutions in new dimensions they will surely leverage the network, but may no longer be quite so networkcentric.”Zoetanya Sujon, a senior lecturer specializing in digital culture at University of Arts London, commented, “Based on the cyclical histories of the printing press, telephone, internet, virtual reality and artificial intelligence, I believe that all technologies are subject to waves, often characterized by ferment/early development, great claims and excitement whether positive or negative, and if they reach the mainstream, they will also experience an era of maturity marked by institutionalization and ‘an era of dominant design.’ After this point, technologies are likely to become obsolete, adapt or converge, or follow through incremental change – all rather like knowledge and product cycles.”A lead QA engineer at a technology group said, “Twenty years ago someone told me that in the future all of our applications and data would be online. I did not believe it … and here we are today. The advances in technology are based on continued availability of electricity that makes technology and connectivity possible. I have a feeling that while many advances are made, some in our society will want to separate themselves. Like in the 1950s the big thing was canned goods, instant meals, and now 50 years later many are going back to cooking from scratch.”An internet pioneer wrote, “If history is a guide, the 10 most valuable companies in the world will be different 50 years from now than they are today. These new players will have succeeded in recentralizing something that earlier generations had decentralized. Perhaps we return to desktop/mobile phone singlevendor dominance. Combined with humancomputer interfaces, the prospect of singlevendor control over the operating system of a substantial portion of your brain is rather frightening. As to the core internet itself – I suspect it won’t actually change a lot. Just like railroads or highways, infrastructure sees short periods of time of great innovation, and then a long plateau. I don’t think the internet has seen much change in the last 10 years aside from being bigger, colder, harsher and filled with more bad actors, so I suspect that plateau will continue more or less for another 50.”A principal researcher for one of the world’s top five technology companies commented, “What technology makes possible in 50 years depends on what technology exists in 50 years. Will Moore’s Law and related semiconductor accelerations be extended through quantum, optical, or some other computing? A breakthrough there in the next 20 years would lead to unimaginable consequences in 50 years. But it seems more likely that they won’t, so we can expect a slow realization of the full capabilities of technology that is not qualitatively different from today’s. That leaves substantial room for increased capability as cloud computing and the Internet of Things get worked out with modest assists from data science and machine learning, and as our attentional balance shifts from novelty and eyecatching visual design to utility and productivity.”Visions of the future: ‘Brave New World,’ ‘1984’ or ‘The Jetsons’A number of respondents shared colorful descriptions of what they expect the world might look like in 2069.Garland McCoy, founder and chief development officer of the Technology Education Institute, wrote, “On the first day there was analog voice and, behold, it was good. On the second day there was humangenerated data/content, and it was pleasing to the people. On the third day machines began to talk directly to machines and this was seen as excellent indeed. On the fourth day, machines began to design their own network of networks (e.g., LoRaWAN, a devicetodevice architecture), and behold great efficiency spread out upon the land. On the fifth day humans began to leave their homes and assemble at the town square to talk among themselves facetoface and this brought great joy to the multitudes. On the sixth day, just as the wise men from the Semiconductor Industry Association had predicted, the world was unable to generate enough electricity to feed all of the chips/devices the wise men had created and darkness descended upon the land. On the seventh day the people rested because that was all they could do. And so endeth the lesson.”Baratunde Thurston, futurist, former director of digital at The Onion and cofounder of the comedy/technology startup Cultivated Wit, wrote, “With land and servers, Amazon was able to accelerate the merger of the space formerly referred to as ‘the internet’ and the realm once called ‘meatspace,’ or ‘in real life,’ such that there is no longer a distinction – it is all referred to now as ‘The Prime Network.’ … Once it was proven in 2045 that a hybrid humannetworked intelligence could manage and draft legislation far better than inconsistent and infinitely corruptible humans, the U.S. Congress was replaced with a dynamic network model accounting for the concerns of citizens yet bound by resource constraints and established laws. This happened too late to save Miami, which is now only accessible by automated submarine, historical tours or VR recreations, but it did help rally the resources required to halt The TenYear Burn in California and restore much of Lower Manhattan. Americans now spend roughly 30 percent of their waking hours in SR (simulated reality) environments. Many spend this time reliving revised personal histories which make them the most popular students in high school even though industrial school farms were abolished 25 years ago and replaced by personalized Mental Training Plenaries that dynamically adjusted to the learning styles and needs of each student. Another 20% of waking hours are spent passively consuming immersive narratives customized to each person. In order to maintain social cohesion, however, these personalized narratives have overlapping characters, plot points and themes so that people have something to talk about when they encounter their fellow humans. Americans split the rest of their time between eating, picking up litter and serving on the obligatory Algorithmic Oversight Committees. Advertising has been banned. Once we launched the 360 Accounting Project to measure the impact of nearly all human endeavors and score them on various elements, the practice of advertising was found to have a negative social, financial, emotional, ecological and moral return on investment. Any human or hybrid engaged in advertising is disconnected from The Prime Network for six hours on a first offense, one day for a second offense and permanently for a third offense. Amazon is exempt from the advertising ban per the Terms of Service that govern all Prime citizens.”Jamais Cascio, research fellow at the Institute for the Future, wrote, “I imagine three broad scenarios for AI in 50 years. No. 1, EVERYWARE, is a crisismanagement world trying to head off climate catastrophe. Autonomous systems under the direction of governance institutions (which may not be actual governments) will be adapting our physical spaces and behaviors to be able to deal with persistent heat waves, droughts, wildland fires, category 6 hurricanes, etc. Our routines will be shaped by a drive to a minimal footprint and a need to make better longerterm decisions. This may not be ‘green fascism’ precisely, but that will be a common invective. The dominant design language here is *visible control* – of public spaces, of economic behavior, of personal interactions, etc. AI is a climateprotective Jiminy Cricket with an attitude. No. 2, ABANDONWARE, is also crisisdriven, but here various environmental, economic and political crises greatly limit the role of AI in our lives. There will be mistrust of AIbased systems, and strong pushback against any kinds of humandisplacement. This likely results from political and economic disasters in the 2040sish linked to giving too much control to AIbased systems: institutional decisions driven by strategies to maximize profits and control, while minimizing uncertainty and risk. AIs messing around with elections, overriding community decisions and otherwise pushing aside fuzzy emotional thinking with algorithmic logic goes swiftly from being occasionally annoying to infuriatingly commonplace. The dominant design language for AI here is submissive. AI is still around, but generally whimpering in the corner. No. 3, SUPERWARE, is the world described in the first answer (AI common but largely invisible) turned up to 11. In this scenario, AI systems focus on helping people live well and with minimal harm to others. By 2069, the only jobs performed by humans in the postindustrial, postinformation world require significant emotional labor, unique creative gifts or are simply done out of the pleasure of doing them. The newly developed world is still adapting, but what amounts to the end of 19th century industrial capitalism forces this change. AIbased systems are dealing with climate, global health, and the like, but in ways meant to increase human wellbeing over the long term. Most people born before 2020 hate this, seeing it as ‘robonanny state socialism’ and ‘undermining human dignity’ even as they take advantage of the benefits. The dominant design language for AI here is ‘caring.’ Machines of Loving Grace, whether you like it or not.”Ebenezer Baldwin Bowles, author, editor and journalist, responded, “The next 50 years? A time frame ending in 2069? As grandpa would say, ‘I can’t imagine.’ But we must try or else fall silent. 1) The best and brightest will communicate braintobrain through implants linked to synapses altered by quantum surgery. Encrypted and delivered by carbonsilicone hybrid technology, this radical expression of the desire to communicate will create new systems of power and control by the planet’s ruling class. 2) Global nationstates, empowered by ironfisted control of electronic media and financial systems, protected by police drones and robots through continuous surveillance systems, and sustained by a willing populous, will oversee legions of workers dedicated to the maintenance of the ruling class of the 1%. 3) The development of nocost neighborhoodbased replicator stations will provide unlimited access for everyone to nutritious food, comfortable clothing suitable to local climates, every imaginable item necessary to maintain a household, and personal necessities linked to popular concepts of comfort and entertainment. The replicator system, an advanced expression of today’s 3D printing technology, will serve as a means of control of the working and professional classes – a chicken in every pot times 10. So, robots and drones with the Evil Eye to watch and control the people. Unlimited food, clothing and shelter to cow the masses into happy servitude. Total reliance on AI and its tendrils to supply the necessities of life. What a wonder to behold in 2069. Think back to 1969. Even the most imaginative thinkers missed the one crucial aspect of digital control of everyday life in 2018: the surveillance camera. Who back then could imagine the total loss of privacy and personal independence we live with today? We are swallowed up by digital influences now. In 50 years the influences shall morph into total control, and the world we know now shall be devoured by electric ones and zeroes, one after another in the rapid march to dissolution.”Jerry Michalski, founder of the Relationship Economy eXpedition, said, “Most internetconnected devices have been p0wn3d and are in the Dark Net, making most systems scary and unstable. Supersmall drones changed warfare and policing, making it difficult and expensive to hide. Anyone who feels at risk travels in a selfsufficient chamber to avoid infiltration. Meanwhile, a quarter of humanity has figured out how to hear one another and live in abundance, but they have to keep below the radar…. Over 50 years many more things will change, but the forces at play are shoving society in negative directions. People who want better will achieve progress, but I see a dystopian future for the majority of humanity.”A research scientist who works for Google said, “You want a 50year prediction? I’m not sure what to say. Google is only 20 years old – would you have predicted that (and all of the side effects) back in 1968 (50 years ago)? Likewise, Amazon is 24 years out. My point is that predicting tech changes in the online/software space is really, really hard. Remember the rise (and fall, and rise?) of walled gardens? Did anyone predict the fall of AOL back when it was the biggest company around? A few things I can predict with confidence: 1) There will be new business models that we do not yet know about. Amazon was enabled by a host of technologies that didn’t exist in 1968. Play that same tune forward. 2) There will be a backlash against the Internet of Things. Just sayin’. 3) Eventually, we’ll figure out how to do sufficiently high framerate and precision registration so that VR/AR actually works. Both will be interesting; both have the possibility of being worldchangers. (But I don’t know how that will happen yet. Probably, it will happen in a way we don’t yet understand.) 4) Bandwidth will eventually make it into the entire third world. That will change the online landscape as much as when the ARPANET became open for commercial purposes. (That is, dramatically.) 5) The social effects of connectivity (especially in the third world) + bandwidth + radicalized pockets of folks will make the current internet battles seem tame. AI will be important, but it’s not going to be the big driver.”The chief marketing officer for a technologybased company said, “The Internet of Things and AI will exponentially help to automate and organize society and the world at large by enhancing existing infrastructure and innovating new ones.”An anonymous respondent wrote, “Widespread networked computing will have collapsed 50 years from now, as will society.”why feature doesn't mean as is writtenby bill joyce in april 2000 of whitemagazinein this article he granted the mostpowerful technology is the 21sttechnology the robotics the geneticengineering and nanotechnology arethreatening to make human life'sendangered speciesbut wait who is bill joywilliam nelson joy was born on november8 1954 he is an american computerengineer and a venture capitalistbilger argues that the developingtechnology provides a much greaterdanger to humanity than it presentedbeforein particular he focuses on engineeringnanotechnology and roboticshe argued that the 20th centurytechnologies of destruction such as thenuclear bomb was limited to largegovernmentsdue to the complexity of cost devices aswell as the difficulty in acquiring thematerials neededin the singularity smear breakers willquestion the regulation of potentialdangerous technology asking should wetell the millions of people afflictedwith cancer and other devastatingconditions that we are considering thedevelopment of all bioengineeringtreatments because there is a risk thatthis same technology may suddenly beused for multiviolent purposesjohn mccain is argued that the jointproposal for relinquishment oftechnologies that may lead to artificialgeneral intelligence or aji would failbecause prohibition at least undercurrent technology and currentgeopolitics are certain to beineffectivein john goldsmith article about duder'sinterview he told him on how concernsreview developing technologies areactually more dangerous than heexpressed in the artifactbecause holdsmith means that thedevelopers of these machines are givingthem too much powerand joy expresses his concern abouttheir reach will be the only one whohave the power to control the robotsand thus i have a question herewhy future doesn't need usif you need knowledge let's try toanswer this directionwrite through if the statement iscurrent if the statement is incorrectright false and the correct answernumber one why future doesn't need us isan article of bill joy number two pjargus developing technologies provide amuch less danger to humanityfuture of science and technology insociety of course science and technologyare part and parcel of society they forma crucial part of everybody's lives soit is little wonder therefore thatscientists and technologists areconcerned with the image that thesociety has of themselves and the levelof trust that society has in researchersand technology developers and perhaps inthis day and age is particularlyimportant that we concern ourselves withthis because of course we have all seendecision makers doubt experts and expertopinion and hence our interest in thisin the opinion in the Society ofscientists and technologists is evenfurther heightened having said thatthere are some curious facts that weknow about we know that members of thegeneral public actually hold scientistsin important regard general generallyscience scientists as a profession arewell respected these are thisinformation comes from polls mainlyconducted in the global North especiallyin North America interestingly in thesame polls journalists tend to doparticularly poorly in terms of the thegeneral public public opinion and yet atthe same time there is a concern in thesociety over the role and the influencethat technology particularly digitaltechnology companies exert over thesociety and how that business conductshow those businesses conduct themselvesagain allow me to refer to somerelatively recent data from from NorthAmerica so for example the generalpublic in the u.s. believes that thesedigital technology companies haveparticularly favored views of specificgroups for example 43% of the generalpublic believes that those groups thosetechnology companies support liberalsversus conservatives 23% believed thatthese companies favored views of menover women and very interestingly inperhaps not surprisingly in recent years72% believe that social social mediaplatforms actively sense their politicalviews to other pieces of statistics foryou to bear in mind and for thepanelists to consider is 75w pardon 65percent of Americans agree with thefollowing statement that the thetechnology digital technology companiesoften fail to anticipate how theproducts and services will impactsociety and 24% of that same populationwho took the poll and say that thosecompanies do not do enough to protectpersonal data and their users and ingeneral if you think that technologistsare trustworthy and 50 percent of thosewho express an opinion think thattechnology companies should be much morestrictly regulated so there's aninteresting setting interestingdichotomy perhaps between how scientistsas professionals are considered and whatthe general public thinks abouttechnology and technology companies sothis is what what we're here to discussand we have a fantastic panel to discussit with me so I will introduce them inorder so here on my left and usually wehave Carlos Carlos misers who'sCommissioner for research science andinnovation at European Commission and bytraining he's a civil engineer next tohim is Saleh Sarah almarriMinister of State for advanced sciencesfor the United Araboriginally trained as a computerengineer next we have only species offerpresident and CEO of ABB grouporiginally economist by training next tohim is last Sorensen chairman of theboard of directors and novo nordiskfoundation originally studied forestryand economics and until recently waspresident and CEO of Northern or discand last but most definitely not leastwe have Brian Schmidt who's a professorof astronomy and vice vice chancellor ofAustralian National University and NobelPrize winner in physics in 2011 so letme open with the first break firstquestion   Sarah the the data which Iwas just referring to and most of theinformation which we have of coursecomes from North America but morebroadly from the global North you bringa very interesting perspective to thisconversation what does the situationlook like in United Arab Emirates and inthe Middle East more broadly and theEmirates and the Middle East in generalthe focus when it comes to science andtechnology hasn't gotten to a point fromwhere what we see the statistics reflectin terms of a lack of trust maybe intechnology companies the reason for thatis a lot of our economies including theUAE is not highly intensive on scienceand technology driven organizations thatbeing the case for us science andtechnology is actually the Dynamo of thefuture of our economy especially when alot of the countries that our oil basedcountries are moving and pushing moretowards diversifying their economy wesee science technology as the actualfoundation for the future of that andwe're we're talking about an entireregion that is sixty percent made up ofpeople that are under 35 there is quitea thirst for opportunities and alsoquite a thirst for stability over alland the drivers towards and the needsfor it for the group of people betweenthe age of 20 and 35 which is what ourregion not only the UAE but the regionis made upis looking more and more towards towardsscience and technology as a means to anendso as creating opportunities for them ascreating jobs for them and creatingbetter stability within their ownsocieties so the perception sort of andthe need for science and technology hasis quite different from a region that iswell stabilized when it comes to theoverall science technology ecosystemperceptions like you said aboutscientists again it's the same aseverywhere else in the world it's quiteit is quite high and they do hold themin high regard but there is a largedisconnect between the science communityand overall society that we see thatthat there is still that sort ofperception that scientists are a smallniche in society of a particular IQ thatare quite disjoint than everybody elseand that sort of hinders more and morepeople entering into Sciences but whenwe see engineering the region has quitea high concentration of graduates whenit comes to engineering and theutilization of their skills andcapabilities Falls well aligned withtechnological advancements for theregion so the next drive as in terms ofpriority for us is having more and morecompanies being established out of theUAE and out of the region that developtechnologies and develops and solutionsfor societal needs thank you veryinteresting how being at a differentstage you you have a greater potentialto shape that perception but indeed thesituation is different currently you Leeif I can follow up with you on this soin in the global North as I described itwe do have a an issue with thatperception what why do you think that isand what can be done about it to bringabout change now then you take today'ssituation around technology many peoplehave an issue and say can I trust it doI believe in it do I want it amen you dothe root cause of it typically there area couple of observations number onepeople are not concerned about thetechnology they are concerned about whatthe technology does and therefore weshould not decouple a perspective fromscience or technology from the use of ityou should always look at jointly I justgive you an example when you get up inthe morning it's the elderly person andyou go in the garage and you see a caris that good or bad technology it'sgreat technology because it gives youconvenience I'm getting around now thesame technology used they forbadepeppers might become a weapon so I thinkthe value in the solution that you drivefrom a technology perspective is fundingthat we've ever bear off second we talka lot about potential negative impactsof technology be by far don't talkenough about the positive effects oftechnology ask an elderly person let'sstay with that what AI in a buildingdoes when the other lis person can justsay switch on the light get me some foodfill up the refrigerator by internetshopping how does our lives becomesomething there are positive andpositive received and we're gonna get itgoing if you look at the history ofmankindthe development of prosperity of growthof wealth hangs directly together withtechnology don't forget in 1990 30% ofthe global population live below theextreme poverty line today it's lessthan 8% and BFD ambition to get it tozero now what's the pattern that got usthere let's first start with the partsof the world that did not embracetechnology take Africa Africa has somesignals of adoption technology but alltogether has done much less than otherparts we have today more people belowthe extreme poverty line than beforewhich is really concerning that means acall for action for us as leaders insociety in industry the countries likeIndia in China the last 20 years morethan 400 million people have been movedfrom below the extreme poverty line intohigher income bucket meaning that wehave today a much better pattern anddebt in the use of that or a driver ofthat was really application of humanforce together with technology goingforward we see that everybody in theworld today is afraid about roboticsbecause perceptions are being created arobot skilled jobs and the opposite istrue if you look at the reemergence ofthe American automotive industry itwould not have happened if automationexcuse me and robotics together wouldn'thave allowed worldclass productivityand quality of the outcome of theprocesses that we're gonna get going sothere is a information element of thetrust that we need to work on butthere's a second element that we alsoneed to work on because people totallylegitimately say what does it mean forme what does it mean for my job and ifyou look at in 2030 10% of globalpopulation will work in jobs that don'texplain exist todayonethird of the American populationworks today in jobs that it mixes 25years ago so we have a mandate in frontof us to take the people with us and weneed to take the people with us in acouple of different dimensions first dothe information what it means what iscoming your waywhat do we do the second piece is weneed to take our mandate very veryserious between politics education andindustry to take the people with us andshape the future of employment the onlygonna make forum has done a study andthe study says automation will kill 75million jobs and that's the number thateverybody focuses on but at the sametime the same study says it will createhundred thirty three million new jobs inparallel and that's the transition thatpeople that drives anxiety and fearbecause people might say I might be inthe 75 million bucket and who helped meto get into the hundred thirty threemillion bucket and that's something thes responsible leaders we need to take upgive an example of our own company in2005 I joined ABB there about 19 billionturnover comparable basis we had 90,000people we had $47 and blue color peopletoday we have 36 billion turnover wehave hundred forty six thousand peopleand we have 42,000 bluecollar peoplethat means we have taken the employmentthe staff profile in a completelydifferent shape and we have done this ina responsible proactive way and that'sthe mandate that we need to take on wehad reason to be used digitaltechnologies to take a 1.4 billion costout of our general and admin processesand at the same time we said what do wedo with the people we would have hadhuge restructuring charges doing that ifwe looked at our elderly at our agepyramid in the company and reallyrealized we need to hire every yearbetween eight and ten thousand people toreally safeguard the growth of thecompany at the same time so we said withHR together is that we take the peopleand we offer them a redeployment and arillette occasion it cost me thirty fivethousand euro to reeducate somebody inGermany it cost me hundred thousand tofire somebody so it's it's economicallyattractive to do the right thing andit's also from a staff perspectivehugely motivating to do that so but wehave now embraced and I stopped withthat we have embraced of a continualjourney of continuous change that peopleknow they have to expect their job willbe changing but they have also impressedon a journey that people know we takecare of them and I think that's themandate to all of us we don't have 75million people or 133 million peoplethat's a mandate to all of us betweenpolitics education and industry to takethe serious to take the mandate and thenI'm sure they can achieve growthprosperity involve with a higher levelof confidence and trust and a morepositive momentum than what we areseeing today so these comments areparticularly interesting to consider inthe light of one of the statistics thatI gave you at the beginning and that is65% of the people in these polls inNorthbelieve these companies that we're nowtalking about failed to anticipate howtheir products and services will impactsociety and so there's a clear mismatchin in what can I just comment on thatyou have a civic mom because this is avery small set of technology companiesthis is the Facebook's our monster ofthe world that's a set of 12 companiesthat basically drive the perceptiontheir technology leaders are active inthe b2c space the active in the b2bspace the main distrust is at the momenthappening on the b2b b2c space on thetopics that you just mentioned and weneed to address it but we need tocalibrate that's right so that's alsoquite interesting who shapes thatperception which then spreads over thewhole the whole sector and the communitylet me turn now with a question to toolask is because you have an interestingperspective of having been on the on thebusiness side of things but mostrecently you have moved to a foundationhas that has that changed yourperception now and and your insight intowhat we can do in order to change theperceptions that we're talking abouthere yeah I would say that journey hasinformed me of my current opinion the nonoise foundation has as one of its remitto support basic science in primarily inbiomedical research but alsoincreasingly now in Natural Sciences andthrough education and as such we have afundamental belief that knowledgecreates progress and and therefore Trustis very very important and we alsobelieve that without technology andscience we cannot solve them all themajor problems that we are facing rightnow so that Trust is even more importanttoday than it has ever beensocieties are becoming more plural inthe past it was the experts that had avoice now everybody has a voice andhence we can sometimes get blinded bythe fact that that the choir is sodiverse and the messages are sodiverse so the internet the advent ofthe internet and social media are bothpart of the problem but also hopefullypart of the solution to regaining orcreating the trust that we need we needsimply the credible source ofinformation to proceed and so my initialperception was that geez I was lookingat some particular events recently whereinformation its social media hasinformed the public of health decisionswhich were were probably not the bestfor their health based on amisconception of natural treatments andremedies and I I know Brian can talk atlength to this in that even in the faceof I would say overwhelming scientificevidence to the contrary and this justgoes to show that there is somethingwhich is a problem but then I started toreflect is that a new thing or or have Iexperienced this in the past and when Ilook back at my time with the company Istarted in in the industrialbiotechnology part and then moved tohealthcare and spent 34 years with thecompany the first issue was when wetried to introduce modern biotechnologythis was industrial manufacturing of bioingredients for different householdproducts and industrial processes andone of them was enzymes for detergentsthere was a big public debate aboutwhether this was hazardous for for theconsumer and a lot of NGOs were veryaggressively against this new technologyand hence we had to layoff 30% of ourstaff until 15 years later we were ableto convince the public that it wasactually to the contrary that theseperishable bio chemicals could help uslower the temperature of the washingprocess being ecologically much moresound and completely biodegradablein nature the next experience was theexperience of GMOsthe advent of our ability to geneticallymodify both organisms and plants interms of organisms it was relativelyeasy to convince the public that GMOsfor human health purposes was probably agood idea as long as the manufacturingprocess was contained GMOs forindustrial processes were slightly moresuspicious in the eyes of the publicbecause what is the gain is the gain outweighing any unquantifiable risk andcertainly as when it came to plants thiswas meaning planting new plants out insociety that were altered geneticallythe precautionary principle has led tothis not being applied at all in Europeas opposed to United States based on theprecautionary principle and in recentdays we have seen issue of vaccine wherethe public perception has been that wellmaybe there is some you get sick you getautism you get other ailments by beingvaccinated so vaccination rates arecoming down measles are becoming anissueHPV virus treatment is being less thanwhat it should be in the face ofscientific overwhelming evidence so Ithink that we need to recognize thatthis has always been an issue that it isa rather than criticizing the public fornot understanding our wonderful scienceand technology we need to understandthat that we need to be in interactionwith society about our intentions therisks associated with the technologythat we embark on we see a very starkrecent example of genetic engineering ofbabies to create HIV resistance in Chinawhich has of course gone completely overthe edge in terms of what we would asickly and morally recommendand this is being highly debated at themoment so it is upon us it's upon all ofus to educate the public and go into adialogue with the public about thebenefits but also recognize that thesome of the risks which may be perceivedrisks may be emotional concerns willhave to be dealt with and unless we dealwith them openly we will not be able toget a license to operate and that wouldbe meaning that we would end up in amuch poorer world and we wouldn't beable to solve the major problems that weface shortage of foodstuffs pollutionclimate change all the rest of it I meanwe need technology for that purpose sovery clearly there are two strong themesemerging one of communication clearpurposeful communication and educationof the of the general public and societyat large and and very importantly to methat some of the the final points thatyou made this has to be communicationwhich is transparent and an educationwhich is transparent and so in otherwords respectful of the society withwhich we communicate the naturaltransition will be now to hand over toto Brian to talk about maybe roles ofuniversities in education in thiscontext how do you see that yeah I meanI guess I see this problem as having twosides there is one side where peopleacross society are not trusting theinformation as presentedso vaccinations GMOs climate change andthe old days fluoridation of water areour examples now that is a specificissue of communication and it's becomemuch harder because the Internet and theWorld Wide Webnow allows us or allows people to go outand seek information on their own basiswe used to curate it in the universitiescurated information and we only told youwhat we thought was right and there wasoccasionally questionsaround in our own areas of what wasright and wrong but we curated theinformation we are no longer able tocurate the information for people andthat is a profound change to how weperceive ourselves and it has made itmuch much harder and so we need tofigure out how to go out and communicateclearly the ideas that we see based inscience and how we do that welleducation of people starting at agethree all the way up the more educatedpeople are the less likely they are torebel against this information and theseare this rejection of informationcertainly right now is linked topopulism and its length and populism islinked directly to educationalattainment not onetoone but you cankind of see the strategy there but youdon't go out and start this at two fiftyyear olds you need to start at age threeand you need to have a highly educatedpopulation the other issue which isquite different is people not trustingcompanies or the government withinformation in this new what I willdescribe as a cyber you know a cyberphysical world where artificialintelligence and data and robots arecoming together in a new way and that isnot something based on education it'snot populist it's well held across thepopulation and it's well held forreasons we've already discussed is thatthere have been some some problems thatwe have all see emerge we have seen themanipulation of social media bypotentially state actors to influencepublic opinion we've seen informationbeing used in ways to manipulate ourbehavior by corporations to buy thingsin ways that we didn't completelyrealize and so that has emerged becausethis is the Wild West it is a placewhere there are no rules there are nonorand in the Universities where we havecreated the entrepreneurs or have goneout and done this we didn't sit down anddescribe to them what's the right way tothink this through their company wentfrom you know a dollar to a billiondollars and in 18 months and they'rejust trying to make money and they'renot really thinking of this so it wesort of lost control of it so one of thethings that we're doing is we havestarted a new Institute several yearsago now led by Genevieve Bell at Intelwhere we are literally trying to createthe design framework of this cyberphysical world so that you get a set ofrules like when you build a bridge oryou do for example an electrical grid orhow we're more recently used to computerscience there's a design principles tomake these things robust and this is anemerging science it's not yet existwhere we're literally going through andsaying you know the fundamentals of whatyou know what agency does this systemhave that is what is it allowed to goout and do what what power does it haveto go out do things how much autonomy dowe give it do we let it run completelyopen loop forever or do we intervene andcurate it what its activities are andfinally you know how how much assurancedo we have are we sure it's actingwithin the realm of the permissionswe've given it and those route that thatthat way of thinking things does notexist it exists in all the otherengineering disciplines and we just takeit for granted but in this case it's theWild Westyou know I create a new app it doessomething it interacts with people in acomplex way and she'll be right thereare no engineering rules so we're tryingto create that engineering disciplineand you'll see now all sorts of humaninteractive AI that's these are all thesame flavor and so you know we'rebeginning to create that across theuniversity system and that's going to bepart of our education is helping createresponsible tech in the future bydesigning the systems that hopefullyhelp stop some of the problems we'veseen the varying points trying torules into the in this of wildwest ofcommunication and and indeed newdisciplines as they as they emerge sowe've had a number of interestingdiscipline views from differentrepresentatives you'll be fascinating tohear your perspective colors from from aperspective of an institution how howcan institutions advance the the solvehealth help solve solve the issue whichwe're discussingthank you very much and thank you to allfor being hereknowing that Chancellor Merkel istalking in the other room there's twoconclusions or you are really a group offriends of ours or you don't know thatshe's speaking in the other room but oneof the things I've done in these fiveyears is commission for science was tothink about this problem ofcommunication and I think there's twothings one is about the communicationitself about how we talk about sciencetoday how do scientists talk aboutscience and then how we explain scienceand I think that after the Second WorldWar we had a social contract somehow inbetween scientists and the people thatwas about scientists telling people whatto do a little bit like Brian said wasverticalyou could curate you were actually wewould go to the your doctor and yourdoctor will tell you what to do andtoday that model is over so we kind ofneed another social contract in betweenscience and people and I think thatsocial contract has to be aboutcommunicating science through differentnarratives that's something that we dosomehow very badly in Europe we havethis amazing program of 80 billion yearsfor science and then I go home to mymother and I say you know we're putting1 billion to map the brain and my mothertells me why why are you mapping thebrain instead of telling my mother wehave these 1 billion years that willcure Alzheimer and then she'll say ok Iunderstand and I think that somehow thescientists they understand science intheir own way and I'm in the middle I'ma politician so I'm hearing betweenthe people in the scientists and I thinkthat what I can help as a politician isto build that narrative and so we'vestarted this project at the EuropeanUnion level which is about creatingthese mission driven science and that isexactly about taking five or sixsubjects at the European level thatpeople will be proud in Europe to seethat we will solve so we could peek andsay we're gonna be the first to have thefirst electrical plane the firstcommercial electrical planethat'd be such an amazing thing for thefuture and then people will feel proudof it and that being proud of it willmake that people will vote forpoliticians that really care aboutscience and then you will have fundingto do your science but you have somehowto get out of your comfort zone asscientists in some of you do these verywell and the ones that are here I meanNobel Prizes you know you do it verywell but most of the others they don'tget into these narratives they talkabout the story of science as what theylove and not what people want to hearand so we have to help on that thesecond part is about the process ofscience if I talk in a lot of town hallsto people that are not scientists youngpeople are the people in small towns inPortugal and people don't understand howscience works what is the process ofscience and suddenly scientists somehowand we as politicians  we want to haveall the answers and we don't explain topeople and so I think that is the firstor the first thing I did in theCommission was to try to have a group ofachieve scientific advisers that willhelp us to explain the process ofscience and by that I mean tellingpeople what scientists don't knowtelling people what science they havedoubts and then tell people look basedon what we know and in this processwhich is the process of science that'swhat we come to to explain you butpeople don't want to know anymorenumbers or facts they want to understandthe process if they don't understandthey will google it and it's worsebecause then they get confused and ifit's about health they get scaredbecause they think they're gonna die andso you have to explain the process andand so I think that these two thingswould change this social contract thatas a lot of things that we're living arewe're talking about multilateralorganizations we have to change thecontract our multilateral organizationswork and I think science is a little bitthe same so that's where we're headingat the level of the European Union thankyou for this very interestingperspective if you think about how weall communicate in different ways so thelandscape in which we operate has reallychanged that you're talking about socialcontract you can think of it as alandscape in which we operate and thisthis notion that that politicians canhelp scientists build a new narrativeand I loved the way you said it thatpeople can be proud of the science Ithink that that's the true true level ofengagement that we really ultimatelywant to strive for from from the fromthe general society in the generalpopulation I think that that would besomething amazing to strive for I wouldlike to open for questions from all ofyou we've had some really fascinatingcomments here a lot talking about howthe landscape has changed how there areissues with communication and educationissues but first and foremostopportunities for all of us Yuli isdying to say something will you bebreathing in this round and listen tothis this conversation I feel like beingat a funeral and it's really allnegative we need to regulate we need toavoid it we need to be careful andthat's all true but very clearly we gota mandate in front of us we need to feeda growing population of the world weneed to get the standard of living up weneed to have clean oceans we need tohave cleaner air and technology andscience should contribute on that oneand I think whilst we need to talk aboutvery important hygiene factors of doingthis in the right way we should alsofocus on the impact that we want tocreate with the future of science andtechnology if use technology rightwe can make the air cleaner if we usetechnology right we can get kidshealthier when we get technology rightwe can make sure that the oceans of theworld don't get polluted as much as theyget polluted today and I think thatmandate we also need to make sure welifted in a positive way and don't feellike this is all negative because it'sfantastic where we got to over the lastcouple of thousand years of mankinddesign technology I'm personally veryexcited where we can get in the futurebut naturally we need to manage therisks also in a good way just as a sidecomment absolutely I think there's a lotto be proud of and so now the challengeis to make everyone proud of itand there are a number of questionsalready if I can ask if you can stand upwhen you ask a question identifyyourself please I'm a science writerfrom Zurich I would be very interestedto hear your opinion on that because Ithink it's not only education I thinkit's fascinating the fact that withvaccinations it's the more educatedagainst vaccinations so this is kind ofa mismatch between education andknowledge so do you have yeah I meancertainly vaccinations in Australia is amiddle class problem and it's not but itis again it's moderate education but themost educated people tend not to fallinto it so it again comes to not beingable to curate information like we usedto and things can run amuck and they runamok by campaigns by very serious peopleand in the case of vaccinations we cantrace it in Australia to a couple veryhighprofile people who have get thingsstarted it takes off on its own so thequestion is how you deal with that youcould try to regulate it I'm not surethat's a good ideayou can try to counter it and we do andI would say we're winning that war butthe reality is measles has popped upagain after being almost completelyeliminated and it's painful so I thinkthat has to be I think that ultimatelycomes to a failure of previous educationyou know threeyearolds to Universityonto that it's just it's the ability todiscern what information is valid andwhat information is credible that's beenlost and maybe that goes back to formereducation when we had a primary sourceof books so things that have beenpeerreviewed things that have been wellgone through the process when now wehave a wealth of information at ourfingertips that can be very easily madeto to prove a pointyou can change data points you canchange the way that a graph is shown andand be able to explain to have anotherperspective out of it and it's the samedata point that exists in invalidresearch and it's that ability todiscern what is valid information whathas actually gone through the rightprocess the right scientific process toget to get to the conclusions that ismissing that is something that is vitalagain to go back to education that isvital to teach people at a very youngage especially that we're coming to anage where self learning and the theprocess of education is starting toevolve and by self learning everyone haseverything at their finger tip and itcomes to a real danger on whatinformation people learn when they'renot able to discern what is correctquote/unquote correct information orinformation that is collected in acorrect manner versus otherwise to myears as an editor of a scientificjournal of course what you say ringsvery true absolutely there's thequestion here at the frontmy name is Ferdinand de l'opéra I'm thepresident of the University of Waterlooin Canada fantastic comments thank youso much I'm gonna try to limit to myquestions but I'm an engineer I usetechnology passionately but at the sametime I'm concerned from adecisionmaking perspective to not to beable to distinguish between purecuriosity based signs and mission drivensciencewhen we do this our weak are we killingus at least part of our curiosity whichis absolutely at the cornerstone ofevery basic scientific discovery withoutlinking it to a specific mission secondquite quick note I am extremelyconcerned about is something calledpredatory journals and this tumor isgrowing and we are absolutely and thisis the part that I really don't liketechnology because it is creating areally fakeartificial scientific world that manypeople are following and this is I wedon't have an answer quite answer butthere is a very important role for thescientific journals to play to eliminatethat thank you can I just answer for thefirst part which is something that I'vebeen thinking for the last three yearsabout the link in between keep investingand investing more in fundamentalcuriositydriven research especiallybecause I think that being myself anengineer I see that a new wave ofinnovation is a wave that will go backto fundamentals and to fundamentalresearch in quantum technology orblockchain or rather and I think thatmissions can be very positive for itbecause if you look at the mostsuccessful example of a mission which isa President Kennedy saying I'll put aman on the moon the results of putting aman of the moon had nothing to do withputting a man on the moon there's somuch curiosity driven research thatbasically was that the time developed tocure disease to create new materialsthat were pure curiosity driven and Ithink that by creating at the top of thepyramid these mission driven sciencethat can be four or five good examplesthat is a way of carrying all the othersbecause today if you have as apolitician to go around the country andtalk about science people want to knowthe results and the use of that scienceand so you know that behind that there'sthethough science that sometimes brawl in20 years 100 years will give results wedon't know or never but that's not thepointso I think that I as creating thismission driven science idea for Europe Ithink that I will be able to convincemore people to invest exactly one whatyou want that's for me the example I getfrom a scientist in the CERN that oncetold me look the reason I do thesethings that in physics it's somethingthat nobody really understand just mebut I have a story to tell that it's notreally the reason but people like tohear and so you know and and we have toto create that I think it's a but it's avery good question and I've beenthinking a lot about it and so I justwanted to tell you that there's a lot ofreflection but you also have a point sowe have to be balanced about it it maybe just a compliment on that for us asindustrial leaders I always say it'ssuper important that you keep theplayground for the future we had thatsituation ABB we spend about a billionfive every year on research anddevelopment and then I took over it wasI looked at it and be realized ok 70% ison maintaining and making better what wehave and a to smaller amount of it wasreally given the people to opportunityin the sandbox to think about what wedon't think about what could beimportant for the future but so what didwe do we we said ok there are certainspaces very gonna allocate money and oneof the space was digital technologiesand I said ok got a team established wesaid team you have 100 million you havea hundred million a year and the othersthe the traditional guys said we don'thave that money and said no no we havethat money you just spend it at themoment so we cut your spending here andyou all together have to cut by ahundred million and big if theplayground one hundred million and if wewouldn't have done that too I wouldn'thave done that a couple of years agotoday the company wouldn't really be indire straitsdid we know what we're gonna do withevery dollar of this 100 million did weknow where are we gonna spend exactly ahundred million 80 million or we needmore no but we just said wecreated space and I think that somethingthat's missing today in society veryvery often the ambition and Endicott'sto say okay you know whatdespite my quarterly reports myactivists on the charities they'reeverybody breathing down our neck I takea hundred million that I don't know whatI get out of it next quarter but I throwit at a future I believe there can besomething created and that's what weneed to stand for and we need to makesure to shorttermism that is reallyimpacting all of us every day runningcompanies running budgets in researchorganization doesn't kill the ambitionfor creativity for spaces to be createdto really shape the future so veryimportant points so Brian and then SarahI think we want to yeah so I think oneof the issues that we have is missionsare easy to sell and I think they are animportant part but certainly over mycareer mission oriented research or whatI would describe is translationalresearch where there is actually apurpose and the work that you would doin your company will almost always behaving some purpose it displaces thebasic research just in and has beenhappening and you can see in thestatistics of all the countries so sincewe have the president of Waterloo whohas a Nobel Prize winner of this yearBarbara Strickland her work in laserphysics which was completely had norelevance to any any mission anywherehas now helped create the whole field ofquantum information of manipulatingquantum states which is going to be ahuge industry going forward so we needto preserve it and make sure it doesn'tget displaced noting the importance ofthe missions so so the storyline that wejust heard right now we don't hear wedon't communicate like this to thepublic we don't go and tell them thatthis technology that you're using todayactually was a result of investment inbasic science research and as a policymaker we have this exact same dilemmaand how do we ensure that we have acontinuous efj of science in general byby funding basic research versusgarnering more and more support forfunding research and that's researchwith a purposeand identifying the priorities againwhen we're talking about a countrythat's just starting in sciencetechnology the first step that we had todo is corporations weren't looking intotheir future challenges and they weren'tin there they're still not investinginto future that that that they knowthat they will face challenges anddirectional research that's where it'sbeing filled in it's filled in in twokey sectors that the UAE is currently ininto it's oil and gas sector into itsmanufacturing sector into statistics andtravel and transport sectors and theninto our key priorities better healthwater energy and food that is thedirectional portion of it when it comesto basic research it's it's alleviatingthe burden that is that is currently onthe government to fund translationalresearch which is currently happeningmore and more that is taking fundingfrom basic research by building a caseto this purpose for a new sector toharness to actually invest intranslational research and appliedresearch and would enable the theflexibility for the for the for basicresearch and fundamental research toactually occur and happen and then ourdialogue needs to change I myself sufferfrom this we are not very goodstorytellers hmm we are very good atusing jargons and it's it's it'salienates people and the more the moreyou talk to people in town halls themore you realize that your language isnot understood and then one point ofhaving those monumental challenges iswhat the UAE adopted about four yearsago and in taking on a large monumentalproject of sending a spacecraft to Marsand that has created quite a change indialogue in children of all ages wheretoday we have cases in universities ofstudent students turning changing theirmajors because of the mission fromInternational Studies from economicsthese are these are important but to thesciences because when they first enterinto these majors they did not know thatthere was opportunities elsewhere theydid not understand the focus of it so weshould not go away from taking suchmonumental challengesthat are risky that sometimes make not alot of sense I mean a country that is asyoung as the UAE a country that has aspace sector that it was establishedless than 10 years ago when when weannounced that project and that has onlybeen working on a various nichespacecraft development and still hasn'thad their capabilities is going into achallenge that has a 50% chance ofsuccess so it's we need to continuouslyremember that globally that mind shiftsthat sort of Apollo mission Hale orprojects that moonshot that's still thatalways needs to be there in the way thatwe do business in science final quickcomment Lars on that topic yes it was itwas back to one of the comments madeinitially by Brian which in the spiritof this Davos Brian where we see a moveto bilateralism as opposed tomultilateralism you were talking aboutsystems design and through education anddefining processes and designs forcomputer use for artificial intelligencehow do you see that doing globallyagreed upon in the world that we arefacing right now because the use of itis global so this means everybody has toget on understand that otherwise it'smeaningless to develop a standard sowell these things have ever developedvery organically so you can go throughand look at computer science kind ofemerged out of Carnegie Mellon and someother places and people said oh gosh okand then suddenly the academic world isincredibly globalized and you know in 18months it'll be adopted everywherelook at Chris progressed you know pastnine boom something happened 10 yearsago and it's in every lab in the worldthree or four years later so it willhappen very quickly when people get theright answer thank you there's thequestion over there please if you standup introduce yourself please hello myname is Goethe I am the president of anonprofit Cultural Association based inLisbon called experimental design and Iwould like to listen to your opinionabout the connection between sciencetechnology and culture essentiallybecausewell I've been working the last 20 yearswith lots of artists that huge scienceat the in technology in a very importantway but I haven't see the opposite soit's rare to see people coming fromscience and from technology to look atcultural field and to use it as a mediumand as possible to expand in terms ofcommunication but also in terms ofresearch so you talk about educationwhich is of course fundamental butculture is much more easy to spread andit's a very important medium to reachpeople in a very efficient andproductive way so I've always mesmerizedwith this distance between these threedisciplines two or three areas well Idon't know have exactly an answer but Ihave a story in my company mypredecessor had to believe that we beinglargely technologists needed to beeducated in culture so he decorated thewhole company with very avantgardemodern art and we thought it washorrible because we couldn't understandit but it left an impression and and iton all of us to ask questions and and itallowed the the employees of the companyto to stop and wonder about this pieceof art what was the real meaning of thisand this this gave them I think thecourage in their daily work to askquestions which they otherwise would nothave so I do believe that there is avery clear link between our culturalorientation and our ability to performscience but also to understand scienceand communicate science I know it's abroader answer but I believe you you'reonto something let me give you oneexample that we did about a year ago toaddress the anxiety and the distrust inrobotics we had an AI and becauseeverybody is concerned about AIeverybody is concerned about robotics wethought how can we transposea different message and we did somethingquite unique we got to get up in frontrayappa jelly and in the Opera of Pisawe had our two arm robot Yumi conductingthe orchestra on Andrea Bocelli sang toit and it was amazing if we would havespent 500 million on advertising and onmarketing money we would by far not havemobilized the openness the perception ofthe world away if we wouldn't have donewhat we did we had millions of YouTubeclicks if you go on it go in yumiBocelli then you get it and it's reallyfascinating and it creates a completelydifferent perception in climate towardstechnology then the conductor does aninterview there they've glowing eyes andsays how wonderful it is to work withthe robotout of the certain you're breaking downbarriers that you would have never beenable to break down there's a scientificmagazine with advertising I thinkthat'sthat's just one of the examplesthat I can share out for your life can Ijust say that and sometimes it's somainstream you forget think of astronomyastronomy is mainstream in culturalstuff everywhere you see it in film yousee it in music you see it in art it'severywhere it's on TV all the timebecause astronomers have always felt theneed to communicate what we do throughany medium possible so I think that's aplace in my own field where we have doneit and done it quite effectively so somuch it's actually mainstreamso it's interesting if you consider thethe topic that we were considering herefor the last hour the future of scienceand technology in society very clearlyscience and society is part of scienceand technology is part of society itneeds to be better integrators itobviously has always been part ofsociety but I think we have a challengeall of us to integrate it much better totap into the different aspect of societyincluding culture thank you for thatquestion I think that was very veryimportant and importantly Illustratedhow powerful that can be we need toembrace better storytelling and talktalk more fully andabout science how the fruits ofscientific endeavor and technologicaldevelopments actually very often in factalmost always have roots in the basicscientific exploration and all of thatcan be wrapped up and folded intoactually generating ideally a situationin which the whole society is proud ofthe scientific endeavor andtechnological development The Information AgeThe Information Age (also known as the Computer Age, Digital Age, Silicon Age, New Media Age, or Media Age) is a historical period that began in the mid20th century. It is characterized by a rapid shift from traditional industries, as established during the Industrial Revolution, to an economy centered on information technology. The onset of the Information Age has been linked to the development of the transistor in 1947, the optical amplifier in 1957, and Unix time, which began on January 1, 1970. These technological advances have had a significant impact on the way information is processed and transmitted.According to the United Nations Public Administration Network, the Information Age was formed by capitalizing on computer microminiaturization advances, which led to modernized information systems and internet communications as the driving force of social evolution.Library expansion and Moore's lawLibrary expansion was calculated in 1945 by Fremont Rider to double in capacity every 16 years where sufficient space made available. He advocated replacing bulky, decaying printed works with miniaturized microform analog photographs, which could be duplicated ondemand for library patrons and other institutions.Rider did not foresee, however, the digital technology that would follow decades later to replace analog microform with digital imaging, storage, and transmission media, whereby vast increases in the rapidity of information growth would be made possible through automated, potentiallylossless digital technologies. Accordingly, Moore's law, formulated around 1965, would calculate that the number of transistors in a dense integrated circuit doubles approximately every two years.By the early 1980s, along with improvements in computing power, the proliferation of the smaller and less expensive personal computers allowed for immediate access to information and the ability to share and store it. Connectivity between computers within organizations enabled access to greater amounts of information.Information storage and Kryder's lawThe world's technological capacity to store information grew from 2.6 (optimally compressed) exabytes (EB) in 1986 to 15.8 EB in 1993; over 54.5 EB in 2000; and to 295 (optimally compressed) EB in 2007. This is the informational equivalent to less than one 730megabyte (MB) CDROM per person in 1986 (539 MB per person); roughly four CDROM per person in 1993; twelve CDROM per person in the year 2000; and almost sixtyone CDROM per person in 2007. It is estimated that the world's capacity to store information has reached 5 zettabytes in 2014, the informational equivalent of 4,500 stacks of printed books from the earth to the sun.The amount of digital data stored appears to be growing approximately exponentially, reminiscent of Moore's law. As such, Kryder's law prescribes that the amount of storage space available appears to be growing approximately exponentially.Information transmissionThe world's technological capacity to receive information through oneway broadcast networks was 432 exabytes of (optimally compressed) information in 1986; 715 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 1993; 1.2 (optimally compressed) zettabytes in 2000; and 1.9 zettabytes in 2007, the information equivalent of 174 newspapers per person per day.The world's effective capacity to exchange information through twoway telecommunication networks was 281 petabytes of (optimally compressed) information in 1986; 471 petabytes in 1993; 2.2 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2000; and 65 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2007, the information equivalent of six newspapers per person per day. In the 1990s, the spread of the Internet caused a sudden leap in access to and ability to share information in businesses and homes globally. A computer that cost $3000 in 1997 would cost $2000 two years later and $1000 the following year, due to the rapid advancement of technology.ComputationThe world's technological capacity to compute information with humanly guided generalpurpose computers grew from 3.0 × 108 MIPS in 1986, to 4.4 × 109 MIPS in 1993; to 2.9 × 1011 MIPS in 2000; to 6.4 × 1012 MIPS in 2007. An article featured in the journal Trends in Ecology and Evolution in 2016 reported that:Digital technology has vastly exceeded the cognitive capacity of any single human being and has done so a decade earlier than predicted. In terms of capacity, there are two measures of importance: the number of operations a system can perform and the amount of information that can be stored. The number of synaptic operations per second in a human brain has been estimated to lie between 10^15 and 10^17. While this number is impressive, even in 2007 humanity's generalpurpose computers were capable of performing well over 10^18 instructions per second. Estimates suggest that the storage capacity of an individual human brain is about 10^12 bytes. On a per capita basis, this is matched by current digital storage (5x10^21 bytes per 7.2x10^9 people).Genetic informationGenetic code may also be considered part of the information revolution. Now that sequencing has been computerized, genome can be rendered and manipulated as data. This started with DNA sequencing, invented by Walter Gilbert and Allan Maxam in 19761977 and Frederick Sanger in 1977, grew steadily with the Human Genome Project, initially conceived by Gilbert and finally, the practical applications of sequencing, such as gene testing, after the discovery by Myriad Genetics of the BRCA1 breast cancer gene mutation. Sequence data in Genbank has grown from the 606 genome sequences registered in December 1982 to the 231 million genomes in August 2021. An additional 13 trillion incomplete sequences are registered in the Whole Genome Shotgun submission database as of August 2021. The information contained in these registered sequences has doubled every 18 months.Different stage conceptualizationsDuring rare times in human history, there have been periods of innovation that have transformed human life. The Neolithic Age, the Scientific Age and the Industrial Age all, ultimately, induced discontinuous and irreversible changes in the economic, social and cultural elements of the daily life of most people. Traditionally, these epochs have taken place over hundreds, or in the case of the Neolithic Revolution, thousands of years, whereas the Information Age swept to all parts of the globe in just a few years. The reason for its rapid adoption is the rapidly advancing speed of information exchange.Between 7,000 and 10,000 years ago during the Neolithic period, humans began to domesticate animals, began to farm grains and to replace stone tools with ones made of metal. These innovations allowed nomadic huntergatherers to settle down. Villages formed along the Yangtze River in China in 6,500 B.C., the Nile River region of Africa and in Mesopotamia (Iraq) in 6,000 B.C. Cities emerged between 6,000 B.C. and 3,500 B.C. The development of written communication (cuneiform in Sumeria and hieroglyphs in Egypt in 3,500 B.C. and writing in Egypt in 2,560 B.C. and in Minoa and China around 1,450 B.C.) enabled ideas to be preserved for extended periods to spread extensively. In all, Neolithic developments, augmented by writing as an information tool, laid the groundwork for the advent of civilization.The Scientific Age began in the period between Galileo's 1543 proof that the planets orbit the Sun and Newton's publication of the laws of motion and gravity in Principia in 1697. This age of discovery continued through the 18th century, accelerated by widespread use of the moveable type printing press by Johannes Gutenberg.The Industrial Age began in Great Britain in 1760 and continued into the mid19th century. It altered many aspects of life around the world. The invention of machines such as the mechanical textile weaver by Edmund Cartwrite, the rotating shaft steam engine by James Watt and the cotton gin by Eli Whitney, along with processes for mass manufacturing, came to serve the needs of a growing global population. The Industrial Age harnessed steam and waterpower to reduce the dependence on animal and human physical labor as the primary means of production. Thus, the core of the Industrial Revolution was the generation and distribution of energy from coal and water to produce steam and, later in the 20th century, electricity.The Information Age also requires electricity to power the global networks of computers that process and store data. However, what dramatically accelerated the pace of adoption of The Information Age, as compared to previous ones, was the speed by which knowledge could be transferred and pervaded the entire human family in a few short decades. This acceleration came about with the adoptions of a new form of power. Beginning in 1972, engineers devised ways to harness light to convey data through fiber optic cable. Today, lightbased optical networking systems at the heart of telecom networks and the Internet span the globe and carry most of the information traffic to and from users and data storage systems.There are different conceptualizations of the Information Age. Some focus on the evolution of information over the ages, distinguishing between the Primary Information Age and the Secondary Information Age. Information in the Primary Information Age was handled by newspapers, radio and television. The Secondary Information Age was developed by the Internet, satellite televisions and mobile phones. The Tertiary Information Age was emerged by media of the Primary Information Age interconnected with media of the Secondary Information Age as presently experiencedOthers classify it in terms of the wellestablished Schumpeterian long waves or Kondratiev waves. Here authors distinguish three different longterm metaparadigms, each with different long waves. The first focused on the transformation of material, including stone, bronze, and iron. The second, often referred to as industrial revolution, was dedicated to the transformation of energy, including water, steam, electric, and combustion power. Finally, the most recent metaparadigm aims at transforming information. It started out with the proliferation of communication and stored data and has now entered the age of algorithms, which aims at creating automated processes to convert the existing information into actionable knowledge.EconomicsEventually, Information and communication technology (ICT)—i.e. computers, computerized machinery, fiber optics, communication satellites, the Internet, and other ICT tools—became a significant part of the world economy, as the development of optical networking and microcomputers greatly changed many businesses and industries. Nicholas Negroponte captured the essence of these changes in his 1995 book, Being Digital, in which he discusses the similarities and differences between products made of atoms and products made of bits.Jobs and income distributionThe Information Age has affected the workforce in several ways, such as compelling workers to compete in a global job market. One of the most evident concerns is the replacement of human labor by computers that can do their jobs faster and more effectively, thus creating a situation in which individuals who perform tasks that can easily be automated are forced to find employment where their labor is not as disposable. This especially creates issue for those in industrial cities, where solutions typically involve lowering working time, which is often highly resisted. Thus, individuals who lose their jobs may be pressed to move up into more indispensable professions (e.g. engineers, doctors, lawyers, teachers, professors, scientists, executives, journalists, consultants), who are able to compete successfully in the world market and receive (relatively) high wages.Along with automation, jobs traditionally associated with the middle class (e.g. assembly line, data processing, management, and supervision) have also begun to disappear as result of outsourcing. Unable to compete with those in developing countries, production and service workers in postindustrial (i.e. developed) societies either lose their jobs through outsourcing, accept wage cuts, or settle for lowskill, lowwage service jobs. In the past, the economic fate of individuals would be tied to that of their nation's. For example, workers in the United States were once well paid in comparison to those in other countries. With the advent of the Information Age and improvements in communication, this is no longer the case, as workers must now compete in a global job market, whereby wages are less dependent on the success or failure of individual economies.In effectuating a globalized workforce, the internet has just as well allowed for increased opportunity in developing countries, making it possible for workers in such places to provide inperson services, therefore competing directly with their counterparts in other nations. This competitive advantage translates into increased opportunities and higher wages.Automation, productivity, and job gainThe Information Age has affected the workforce in that automation and computerization have resulted in higher productivity coupled with net job loss in manufacturing. In the United States, for example, from January 1972 to August 2010, the number of people employed in manufacturing jobs fell from 17,500,000 to 11,500,000 while manufacturing value rose 270%. Although it initially appeared that job loss in the industrial sector might be partially offset by the rapid growth of jobs in information technology, the recession of March 2001 foreshadowed a sharp drop in the number of jobs in the sector. This pattern of decrease in jobs would continue until 2003, and data has shown that, overall, technology creates more jobs than it destroys even in the short run.Informationintensive industryMain article: Information industryIndustry has become more informationintensive while less labor and capitalintensive. This has left important implications for the workforce, as workers have become increasingly productive as the value of their labor decreases. For the system of capitalism itself, the value of labor decreases, the value of capital increases.In the classical model, investments in human and financial capital are important predictors of the performance of a new venture. However, as demonstrated by Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook, it now seems possible for a group of relatively inexperienced people with limited capital to succeed on a large scale.InnovationsThe Information Age was enabled by technology developed in the Digital Revolution, which was itself enabled by building on the developments of the Technological Revolution.TransistorsMain articles: Transistor, History of the transistor, and MOSFETFurther information: Semiconductor deviceThe onset of the Information Age can be associated with the development of transistor technology. The concept of a fieldeffect transistor was first theorized by Julius Edgar Lilienfeld in 1925. The first practical transistor was the pointcontact transistor, invented by the engineers Walter Houser Brattain and John Bardeen while working for William Shockley at Bell Labs in 1947. This was a breakthrough that laid the foundations for modern technology. Shockley's research team also invented the bipolar junction transistor in 1952. The most widely used type of transistor is the metal–oxide–semiconductor fieldeffect transistor (MOSFET), invented by Mohamed M. Atalla and Dawon Kahng at Bell Labs in 1960. The complementary MOS (CMOS) fabrication process was developed by Frank Wanlass and ChihTang Sah in 1963.ComputersMain articles: Computer and History of computing hardwareFurther information: Integrated circuit, Invention of the integrated circuit, Microprocessor, and Moore's lawBefore the advent of electronics, mechanical computers, like the Analytical Engine in 1837, were designed to provide routine mathematical calculation and simple decisionmaking capabilities. Military needs during World War II drove development of the first electronic computers, based on vacuum tubes, including the Z3, the Atanasoff–Berry Computer, Colossus computer, and ENIAC.The invention of the transistor enabled the era of mainframe computers (1950s–1970s), typified by the IBM 360. These large, roomsized computers provided data calculation and manipulation that was much faster than humanly possible, but were expensive to buy and maintain, so were initially limited to a few scientific institutions, large corporations, and government agencies.The germanium integrated circuit (IC) was invented by Jack Kilby at Texas Instruments in 1958. The silicon integrated circuit was then invented in 1959 by Robert Noyce at Fairchild Semiconductor, using the planar process developed by Jean Hoerni, who was in turn building on Mohamed Atalla's silicon surface passivation method developed at Bell Labs in 1957. Following the invention of the MOS transistor by Mohamed Atalla and Dawon Kahng at Bell Labs in 1959, the MOS integrated circuit was developed by Fred Heiman and Steven Hofstein at RCA in 1962. The silicongate MOS IC was later developed by Federico Faggin at Fairchild Semiconductor in 1968. With the advent of the MOS transistor and the MOS IC, transistor technology rapidly improved, and the ratio of computing power to size increased dramatically, giving direct access to computers to ever smaller groups of people.The first commercial singlechip microprocessor launched in 1971, the Intel 4004, which was developed by Federico Faggin using his silicongate MOS IC technology, along with Marcian Hoff, Masatoshi Shima and Stan Mazor.Along with electronic arcade machines and home video game consoles pioneered by Nolan Bushnell in the 1970s, the development of personal computers like the Commodore PET and Apple II (both in 1977) gave individuals access to the computer. But data sharing between individual computers was either nonexistent or largely manual, at first using punched cards and magnetic tape, and later floppy disks.DataFurther information: History of telecommunication, Computer memory, Computer data storage, Data compression, Internet access, and Social mediaThe first developments for storing data were initially based on photographs, starting with microphotography in 1851 and then microform in the 1920s, with the ability to store documents on film, making them much more compact. Early information theory and Hamming codes were developed about 1950, but awaited technical innovations in data transmission and storage to be put to full use.Magneticcore memory was developed from the research of Frederick W. Viehe in 1947 and An Wang at Harvard University in 1949. With the advent of the MOS transistor, MOS semiconductor memory was developed by John Schmidt at Fairchild Semiconductor in 1964. In 1967, Dawon Kahng and Simon Sze at Bell Labs described in 1967 how the floating gate of an MOS semiconductor device could be used for the cell of a reprogrammable ROM. Following the invention of flash memory by Fujio Masuoka at Toshiba in 1980, Toshiba commercialized NAND flash memory in 1987.Copper wire cables transmitting digital data connected computer terminals and peripherals to mainframes, and special messagesharing systems leading to email, were first developed in the 1960s. Independent computertocomputer networking began with ARPANET in 1969. This expanded to become the Internet (coined in 1974). Access to the Internet improved with the invention of the World Wide Web in 1991. The capacity expansion from dense wave division multiplexing, optical amplification and optical networking in the mid1990s led to record data transfer rates. By 2018, optical networks routinely delivered 30.4 terabits/s over a fiber optic pair, the data equivalent of 1.2 million simultaneous 4K HD video streams.MOSFET scaling, the rapid miniaturization of MOSFETs at a rate predicted by Moore's law, led to computers becoming smaller and more powerful, to the point where they could be carried. During the 1980s–1990s, laptops were developed as a form of portable computer, and personal digital assistants (PDAs) could be used while standing or walking. Pagers, widely used by the 1980s, were largely replaced by mobile phones beginning in the late 1990s, providing mobile networking features to some computers. Now commonplace, this technology is extended to digital cameras and other wearable devices. Starting in the late 1990s, tablets and then smartphones combined and extended these abilities of computing, mobility, and information sharing. Metal–oxide–semiconductor (MOS) image sensors, which first began appearing in the late 1960s, led to the transition from analog to digital imaging, and from analog to digital cameras, during the 1980s–1990s. The most common image sensors are the chargecoupled device (CCD) sensor and the CMOS (complementary MOS) activepixel sensor (CMOS sensor).Electronic paper, which has origins in the 1970s, allows digital information to appear as paper documents.Personal computersMain article: History of personal computersBy 1976, there were several firms racing to introduce the first truly successful commercial personal computers. Three machines, the Apple II, Commodore PET 2001 and TRS80 were all released in 1977, becoming the most popular by late 1978. Byte magazine later referred to Commodore, Apple, and Tandy as the "1977 Trinity". Also in 1977, Sord Computer Corporation released the Sord M200 Smart Home Computer in Japan.Apple IISteve Wozniak (known as "Woz"), a regular visitor to Homebrew Computer Club meetings, designed the singleboard Apple I computer and first demonstrated it there. With specifications in hand and an order for 100 machines at US$500 each from the Byte Shop, Woz and his friend Steve Jobs founded Apple Computer.About 200 of the machines sold before the company announced the Apple II as a complete computer. It had color graphics, a full QWERTY keyboard, and internal slots for expansion, which were mounted in a high quality streamlined plastic case. The monitor and I/O devices were sold separately. The original Apple II operating system was only the builtin BASIC interpreter contained in ROM. Apple DOS was added to support the diskette drive; the last version was "Apple DOS 3.3".Its higher price and lack of floating point BASIC, along with a lack of retail distribution sites, caused it to lag in sales behind the other Trinity machines until 1979, when it surpassed the PET. It was again pushed into 4th place when Atari introduced its popular Atari 8bit systems.Despite slow initial sales, the Apple II's lifetime was about eight years longer than other machines, and so accumulated the highest total sales. By 1985, 2.1 million had sold and more than 4 million Apple II's were shipped by the end of its production in 1993.Optical networkingFurther information: Fiberoptic communication, Image sensor, and Optical fiberOptical communication plays a crucial role in communication networks. Optical communication provides the transmission backbone for the telecommunications and computer networks that underlie the Internet, the foundation for the Digital Revolution and Information Age.The two core technologies are the optical fiber and light amplification (the optical amplifier). In 1953, Bram van Heel demonstrated image transmission through bundles of optical fibers with a transparent cladding. The same year, Harold Hopkins and Narinder Singh Kapany at Imperial College succeeded in making imagetransmitting bundles with over 10,000 optical fibers, and subsequently achieved image transmission through a 75 cm long bundle which combined several thousand fibers.Gordon Gould invented the optical amplifier and the laser, and also established the first optical telecommunications company, Optelecom, to design communication systems. The firm was a cofounder in Ciena Corp., the venture that popularized the optical amplifier with the introduction of the first dense wave division multiplexing system. This massive scale communication technology has emerged as the common basis of all telecommunication networks and, thus, a foundation of the Information Age.Economy, society and cultureManuel Castells captures the significance of the Information Age in The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture when he writes of our global interdependence and the new relationships between economy, state and society, what he calls "a new societyinthemaking." He cautions that just because humans have dominated the material world, does not mean that the Information Age is the end of history:"It is in fact, quite the opposite: history is just beginning, if by history we understand the moment when, after millennia of a prehistoric battle with Nature, first to survive, then to conquer it, our species has reached the level of knowledge and social organization that will allow us to live in a predominantly social world. It is the beginning of a new existence, and indeed the beginning of a new age, The Information Age, marked by the autonomy of culture visàvis the material basis of our existence."Thomas Chatterton Williams wrote about the dangers of antiintellectualism in the Information Age in a piece for The Atlantic. Although access to information has never been greater, most information is irrelevant or insubstantial. The Information Age's emphasis on speed over expertise contributes to "superficial culture in which even the elite will openly disparage as pointless our main repositories for the very best that has been thought."The Information Age is now upon us. The pace at which technology is evolving is ever increasing –and people are eager to embrace it. Through the use of computers, cell phones, pagers, calculators, videogame consoles and many other technologically advanced products, communication has changed dramatically.The information age is changing peoples every day activities and making tedious tasks run more efficiently.Personal use and businessrelated use of computers and technology are constantly increasing. Althoughthere are many positive aspects of the Information Age, there are also many negatives, such as how theInternet is unregulated. Also, there's a very large legal issue over privacy, as well as many ethical issuescomputerusers face daily. Many believe that this era, as developed as it currently is, will continue to progressand evolve over the years to come.MODULE LEARNING OBJECTIVESAt the end of this Module, you should be able to:1. Link learned concepts to the development of the information age and its impact on society 2. Illustrate how the social media and the information age have impacted our livesDEFINITION OF INFORMATION AGEInformation age is the modern time in which information has become a commodity that is transmittedfreely, easily and quickly by using personal computer networks. This period is also called the Computer Age,the Digital Age and the New Media Age. It is the period that started in the last quarter of the 20th century. According to James R. Messenger who proposed the theory of Information age in 1982, “theInformation age is true age based upon the interconnection of computers via telecommunications, with theseinformation systems operating on both a real time and as needed basis. HISTORY OF INFORMATION AGEAs man evolved, information and its dissemination has also progressed in many ways.The table below traces the history and emergence of the Information Age (United States AmericanHistory, n.d)Table 1: Timeline of the Information AgeYear Event3000 BC Sumerian writing system used pictographs to represent words2900 BC Beginning of Egyptian hieroglyphic writing1300 BC Tortoise shell and oracle bone writing were used500 BC Papyrus roll was used220 BC Chinese small seal writing was developed100 AD Book (parchment codex)105 AD Woodblock printing and paper was invented by the Chinese1455 Johannes Gutenberg invented the printing press using movable metal type1755 Samuel Johnson’s Dictionary standardized English spelling1802 The Library of Congress was establishedInvention of the carbo arc lamp1824 Research on persistence of vision published 1830’s First viable design for a digital computerAugusta Lady Byron writes the world’s first computer program1STUDY GUIDE FOR MODULE NO. 10FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 6: Science, Technology, and Society Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITY1837 Invention of the telegraph in Great Britain and the United States1861 Motion pictures were projected onto a screen1876 Dewey Decimal system was introduced 1877 Eadweard Muybridge demonstrated highspeed photography1899 First magnetic recording were released1902 Motion picture special effects were used1906 Lee DeForest invented the electronic amplifying tube (triode)1923 Television camera tube was invented by Zvorkyn1926 First practical sound movie1939 Regularly scheduled television broadcasting began in the US1940s Beginning of information science as a discipline1945 Vannevar Bush foresaw the invention of hypertext1946 ENIAC computer was developed1948 Birth of fieldofinformation theory proposed by Claude E. Shannon1957 Planar transistor was developed by Jean Hoerni1958 First integrated circuit 1960s Library Congress developed LC MARC (machine readable code)1969 UNIX operating system was developed, which could handle multitasking1971 Intel introduced the first microprocessor chip1972 Optical laserdisc was developed by Philips and MCA1974 MCA and Philips agreed on a standard videodisc encoding format1975 Altair Microcomputer Kit was released: First personal computer for the public1977 Radioshack introduced the first complete personal computer1984 Apple Macintosh computer was introducedMid 1980s Artificial Intelligence was separated from information science1987 Hypercard was developed by Bill Atkinson recipe box methaphor1991 Four hundred fifty complete works of literature on one CD ROM was releasedJanuary 1997 RSA (encryption and network security software) Internet security code cracked for a 48bit numberA major defining event during the early Information Age is the invention of the Internet. Originatingfrom communication networks used by military and academic circles such as the ARPANET, this network wasexpanded to worldwide coverage over the following years, culminating in the creation of the first web browser,WorldWideWeb, in 1990. The Internet soon become a revolutionary bridge that connects the entire worldtogether, as companies begun to utilize the Internet to improve their commercial efficiency, and people sharingtheir thoughts through mediums such as electronic mails (emails), digital forums and social networks, whichgives the era its name due to the massive, evergrowing volume of information distributed digitally around theworld. The internet itself considered to be the decisive technology of the information Age (Castells, 2014).THE IMPACT OF SOCIAL MEDIA ON SOCIETYThe impacts of the INFORMATION AGE can be felt in virtually every area of people’s lives. Thesechanges have the potential to increasingly influence how people communicate, live, work or even spend timefor leisure now and even in the future.As world population grows, so does the number of Internet users across the globe.Thanks to the internet, each person with marginal views can see that he’s not alone. And when thesepeople find one another via social media, they can do things — create memes, publications and entire onlineworlds that bolster their worldview, and then break into the mainstream.Without social media, social, ethical, environmental and political ills would have minimal visibility.Increased visibility of issues has shifted the balance of power from the hands of a few to the masses.While social media activism brings an increased awareness about societal issues, questions remain asto whether this awareness is translating into real change.The Challenges of Social MediaSocial media has been blamed for promoting social ills such as:Cyberbullying:2FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 6: Science, Technology, and Society Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITYTeenagers have a need to fit in, to be popular and to outdo others. This process was challenging longbefore the advent of social media. Add Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, and Instagram into the mix and yousuddenly have teenagers being subjected feeling pressure to grow up too fast in an online world.Michael Hamm, a researcher from the University of Alberta conducted a study that showed the effects ofsocial media on bullying. 23% of teens report being targeted and 15 percent said they’d bullied someone onsocial media. Teenagers can misuse social media platforms to spread rumors, share videos aimed atdestroying reputations and to blackmail others.Lack of Privacy:Stalking, identity theft, personal attacks, and misuse of information are some of the threats faced by theusers of social media. Most of the time, the users themselves are to blame as they end up sharing contentthat should not be in the public eye. The confusion arises from a lack of understanding of how the private andpublic elements of an online profile actually work.Unfortunately, by the time private content is deleted, it’s usually too late and can cause problems inpeople’s personal and professional lives.Fake NewsIt is popular wisdom that people today suffer information overload. A lot of information available on theinternet that spreading fake news. People spend more and more of time absorbing information withoutvalidating if it is reliable or not.DATA PRIVACY ACTInformation and communications technology play a vital role in nationbuilding and development of thecountry. In the information age, he who holds information holds power. From macroeconomic perspective, thefree flow of information is concededly vital to the growth of any nation, and key to the success of anybusiness. With the power that follows information. Hence, it is in the interest of the State to govern theparameters by which such power will be held, while at the same time ensuring the free flow of information topromote innovation and growth.From the perspective of citizens and individuals, the State also protects their fundamental human rightsto privacy of communication. And with the exponentially increasing availability of ways and means to accesspersonal data and information, it becomes the duty of the State to guard against transgressions of theindividual’s rights.Filipinos spend an average of 10 hours and 2 minutes each day online, the highest in the world,according to recent data. The Philippines also tops social media use for the fourth straight year. Vast amountsof personal information from the Philippines, including photos of daily activities, are freely circulating the Web. What has the country done to ensure privacy and data protection?In 2012, the Philippines passed Republic Act No. 10173 or the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (DPA) “toprotect the fundamental human right to privacy of communication while ensuring free flow of information topromote innovation and growth  the  inherent obligation to ensure that personal information ininformation and communications systems in government and in the private sector are secured and protected”.The DPA and its Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) apply to all acts done or practices engagedin and outside of the Philippines if:If the person, either an individual or an institution, involved in the processing of personal data islocated in the Philippines;The act or practice involves personal data of a Philippine citizen or Philippine resident;The processing of personal data is done in the Philippines; orThe act, practice or processing of personal data is done by an entity with links to the Philippines,subject to international law and comity.“Personal data” refers to all types of personal information.3FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 6: Science, Technology, and Society Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITY“Processing” is any operation/s performed upon personal data. These operations include, but are notlimited to the collection, recording, organization, storage, updating or modification, retrieval, consultation, use,consolidation, blocking, erasure, or destruction of data.While technology has certainly lifted many humans out of poverty and enriched our lives in many ways,it has also made the world increasingly complex and difficult to navigate. The rapid disruption of manyestablished industries has meant that even the most intelligent and conscientious individuals have had tostruggle to stay relevant in the modern globalized economy—while others, inundated with information to makesense of, can’t figure out how to make all the right decisions the first time, and must spend years broke,jobless, underemployed, or burnt out. We are not weaker or stupider than our ancestors, but the world is morechallenging than ever before and we need to go through more trial and error than they did in order to secure acomfortable existence. Continued technological development will increase material abundance even more, buttechnology alone cannot solve the problem of figuring out whom to distribute resources to and gettingeveryone on board with how resources are distributed. LEARNING ACTIVITY 2Position PaperWatch the documentary The Internet Revolution and Digital Future Technology(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V9xZFZO7USA). After watching the clip, write a 300 – 500 word paperdiscussing the impact of information revolution to you.Your work will be assessed using the following criteria: 4 3 2 1Depth of Content Demonstrates acomprehensiveunderstanding ofthe subject forreflection and workcan be used as anexample for others.Demonstrates acomprehensiveunderstanding ofthe subject forreflection.Demonstrates abasicunderstanding ofthe subject forreflection.Lacksunderstanding ofthe subject forreflection.Originality andInsightWork is insightfuland shows a highdegree ofimagination.Work is insightfuland showsimagination.Work shows someinsight and somedegree ofimagination.Work is notoriginal.Style and Clarity Ideas are clearlyarticulated and welldeveloped. Ideas are clearlyarticulated and welldeveloped.Ideas show somedegree of claritybut are not welldeveloped.Ideas are notcommunicatedclearly nor are theywell developed.Organization andGrammarWriting is wellorganized with nospelling andgrammatical errors.Writing is wellorganized with fewspelling andgrammatical errors.Writing has somedegree oforganization withsome spelling andgrammatical errors.Writing isunorganized andcontains manyspelling andgrammatical errors.Timeliness Completed workwas passed earlierthan the deadlinegiven.Completed workwas passed on thedeadline given.Completed workwas passed theday after thedeadline given.Completed workwas passed morethan a day after thedeadline given.SUMMARYThe following learning points summarize what you have learned in this section:The Information Age (sometimes called the Digital Age and the New Media Age) is a period starting inthe last quarter of the 20th century when information became effortlessly accessible throughpublications and through management of information by computers and computer networks.According to James R. Messenger, who proposed the Theory of Information Age in 1982, this4FMAACIA15 Rev. 0 10July2020 Study Guide in GE 6: Science, Technology, and Society Module No. 10PANGASINAN STATE UNIVERSITYinterconnection operates on realtime and asneeded basis, and that they are driven by convenienceand userfriendliness.However, the growth of information transmission, recording, and management grew at a fast rate,causing great difficulty. It also created a technological divide between those who can afford internetservices and those who cannot, increasing the gap between socioeconomic classes. Other problemsthat is caused by these developments include compromise on reliability, which gives rise tomisinformation; reinforcement of biases and beliefs of likeminded people belonging to social media;control of public opinion and harassment; online predation, identity theft, scamming, and other newcrimes; pornography; and cyberbullying.The BasicsThe Information Age began around the 1970s and is still going on today. It is also known as the Computer Age, Digital Age, or New Media Age. This era brought about a time period in which people could access information and knowledge easily. Influences of the past on the Information AgeThe Renaissance influenced the Information Age by creating the idea inventions, while too advanced for the time, the basic idea was used to develop modern inventions. The Renaissance also changed literature. At first, only books that told stories of religion and religious heroes were written. During the Renaissance, people began to write realistic books and not just religious stories. People's mindset about themselves changed. It was no longer about what humans could do for God, but what humans could do for themselves. This way of thinking is called humanism. The Scientific Revolution changed the modern era by introducing important scientists such as Galileo, Copernicus, and Sir Isaac Newton. Their discoveries paved the way for modern tools, inventions and innovations. The Industrial Revolution brought about major changes in agriculture, manufacturing, mining, transportation, and technology. This era had a profound effect on the social, economic, and cultural conditions of the world. Inventions and Innovations of the Information AgeThere were many different inventions that came about because of the Information Age, one of which was the computer. The Internet allowed people to access information with the touch of a button.The Internet has turned society into homebodies, individuals who do everything from the comfort of their homes instead of venturing outdoors to complete tasks. People can do everything online; shopping, communicating, bill paying, working, education, entertainment, even ordering food. This may be good, but it has also made us a very lazy and uneducated society. Tim BernersLee, Steve Jobs and Bill Gates are several important people of the Information Age. BernersLee created the World Wide Web. Jobs who was created the first effective personal computer called the Apple 1The Apple 1 was a huge advancement in computer sciences and it carved the path for the computers we have now. Apple has created iPhone, iPod, iPad, iMac, and Apple TV. Gates is also a huge force in the Information Age. He founded Microsoft, which creates almost everything that has to do with computers. Microsoft develops programs like Microsoft Office, Windows, and many other influential products.Changes of the Information AgeThe Information Age has changed people, technology, science, economies, culture, and even the way people think. The Internet is arguably the most prominent innovation of the Information Age. The Internet changed the way people do everything. It has made people lazier, but it also makes a large amount of the population smarter. The Information Age has made industrial countries stronger. With online companies being some of the most successful and economically stimulating businesses out there, economies receive more from them and keep our world turning. People are becoming more mature and more educated due to things like the computer and the Internet. This time period has reshaped governments, with new technology being created every day. Governments can now have more advanced and effective militaries. Because of things like the Internet, new laws had to be put in place to stop hacking, piracy, and identity theft.Impacts of the Information AgeThe Information Age brought about many new inventions and innovations. Many communication services like texting, email, and social media developed and the world has not been the same since. People learn new languages easier and many books have been translated into different languages, so people around the world can become more educated. However, the Information Age is not all good. There are people in the world that believe they can live their entire life through the Internet. Also, huge criminal organizations rely on hacking into government systems and obtaining confidential information to continue their way of life. Jobs have also became easier, and some jobs can even be done from the comfort of your own home. The Information Age is also known as the Age of Entrepreneurship. Now entrepreneurs can start and run a company easier than ever before. It also impacts our work ethics by distracting us and causing us to lose interest in the task we are doing. This time period has also created a shortage of jobs and making many jobs obsolete because machines are now being used to do the work humans once did. In conclusion...The Information Age is now. Every era from the Stone Age up to The Industrial Revolution has led to the world as we know it. Without the information, knowledge and discoveries of those from the past, we would not be where we are today. The past has shaped our present and will continue to shape our future. 2.1 What is information age?The modern age regarded as a time in which information has become a commodity that is quickly and widely disseminated and easily available especially through the use of computer technology.2.2 Trace the developments of information age from the introduction of printingpress up to the era of social mediaAs we trace the development of different forms of mass media, take note of how new technologies and competition among various media formats have made media messages more interpersonal and personalized. In short, the mass media that served large segments of the population with limited messages evolved into micromedia that serve narrow interest groups (Self, Gaylord, & Gaylord, 2009). As we move closer to our current digital age of media, we can see that new media formats are invented and then made available to people more quickly than media that came before. For example, while it took 175,000 years for writing to become established, and about 1,000 years for printing to gain a firm foundation as a medium, audiovisual media (radio, television, and movies) penetrated society within a few decades, and digital media gained prominence in even less time (Poe, 2011).https://courses.lumenlearning.com/sunyrealworldcomm/chapter/151technologicaladvancesfromtheprintingpresstotheiphone/2.3 Identify the pioneers of information age and their contributions Johannes Gutenberg was a German blacksmith known for inventing the mechanical movable type printing press. His printing press has been widely considered the most important invention of the modern era because it profoundly impacted the transmission of knowledge.Alan Mathison Turing, brilliant mathematician, was one of the founders of the computerera. His contributions to this field were extraordinary and decades ahead of problems that we are trying to solve yet.Steve Wozniak is an American computer scientist, inventor and programmer. In partnership with his friend Steve Jobs, Wozniak invented the Apple I computer. The pair founded Apple Computers in 1976 with Ronald Wayne, releasing some of the first personal computers on the market.2.4 Determine the impacts of information age to societyThese revolutions changed the world of information and knowledge, resulting in transformative effects on society. Rapid advances in information and communication technologies during the latter half of the 20th and early 21st centuries are creating an Information Age revolution. he Information Age has impacted the workforce in several ways. First, it has created a situation in which workers who perform tasks which are easily automated are being forced to find work which involves tasks that are not easily automated. Second, workers are being forced to compete in a global job market.INTRODUCTION Highly modernized, automated, datadriven, and technologically advanced —these best describe our society nowadays, as evidenced by how informationcould be transferred or shared quickly. The information aged is defined as a "period starting in the last quarter of the20th century when information became effortlessly accessible throughpublications and through the management of information by computers andcomputer networks." The information age is also called the Digital Age and the New Media Agebecause it was associated with the development of computers.JAMES R. MESSENGER who proposed the Theory of InformationAge in 1982, "the Information age is a truenew aged based upon the interconnectionof computers via telecommunications, withbasis. Furthermore, the primary factorsdriving this new age forward areconvenience and user friendliness which, inturn, will create user dependence." As man evolved, information and its dissemination has also evolved in many ways, , Eventually,we no longer kept them to ourselves; instead, we share them and manage them in differentmeans. Information got ahead of us. It started to grow at a rate we were unprepared tohandle. Because of the abundance of information, it was difficult to collect and manage themstarting in the 1960s and 1970s.Richard Wurmancalled it "information anxiety" in the1990s, information became the currency inthe business world. information was thepreferred medium of exchange and theinformation managers served asinformation officers."TRUTHS OF THE INFORMATION AGE".ROBERT HARRIS DETAILED SOME FACTS ON THE INFORMATION AGE.1. Information must compete.2. Newer is equated with truer.3. Selection is a viewpoint.4. The media sells what the culture busy.5. The early word gets the perm.6. You are what you eat and so is yourbrain.7. Anything in great demand will becounterfeited.8.Ideas are seen as controversial.9. Undead information walks ever on1O. Media presence creates the story.11. The medium selects the message.COMPUTER A computer is an electronic device thatstores and processes data (information).It runs on a program that contains theexact, step — by step directions to solvea problem TYPES OF COMPUTER1. PERSONAL COMPUTER (PC) It is a singleuser instrument, PCswere first known as microcomputerssince they were a completecomputer but built on a smaller scalethan the enormous system operatedby most businesses.2. DESKTOP COMPUTER Itis described as a PC that is notdesigned for portability. Theassumption with a desktop is that itwill be set up in a permanent spot. Aworkstation is simply a desktopComputer that has a more powerfulprocessor, additional memory, andenhanced capabilities for performingspecial group of tasks, such as 3Dgraphics or game development.3. LAPTOPS These are portable computers thatintegrate the essentials Of a desktopcomputer in a battery — powered package,which are somewhat larger than a typicalhardcover book. They are commonly callednotebooks.4. PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANTS (PDAs) These are tightly integrated computers thatusually have no keyboards but rely on atouch screen for user input. PDAs aretypically smaller than a paperback,lightweight, and batterypowered.5. SERVER It refers to a computer that has beenimproved to provide network services toother computers. Servers usually boastpowerful processors, tons of memory,and large drives.6. MAINFRAMES These are huge computer systems that can fillan entire room. They are used especially bylarge firms to describe the large, expensivemachines that process millions of transactionsevery day. The term "mainframe" has beenreplaced by enterprise server.WEARABLE COMPUTERS7. They involve materials that are usuallyintegrated into cell phones, watches and othersmall objects or places. They perform commoncomputer applications such as databases,email, multimedia, and schedulers.THE WORLD WIDE WEBInternet Several historians trace the origin Of the internet to Claude F. Shannon,an American Mathematicians who was considered as the "Father OfInformation Theory". He worked at Bell Laboratories and at age 32, hepublished a paper proposing that information can be quantitativelyencoded as a sequence Of ones and zeroes. The internet is a worldwide system Of interconnected networks thatfacilitate data transmission among innumerable computers. It wasdeveloped during the 1970s by the Department of Defense. In case of anattack, military advisers suggested the advantage of being able to operateon one computer from another terminal. In the early days, the Internet was used mainly by scientists tocommunicate with Other scientists. The Internet remained undergovernment control until 1984. (Rouse, 2014). One early problem faced by internet users was speed. Phone lines couldonly transmit information at a limited rate. The development of fiber opticcables allowed for billions of bits of information to be received every minute. Sergey Brin and Larry page, directors Of a Stanford research project, built aresearch engine that listed results to reflect page popularity when theydetermined that the most popular results to frequently be the most usable.Google is now the world's most popular search engine, accepting more than200 million queries daily. Back then, new forms of communication were also introduced. Electronicmail, or email, was a suitable way to send a message to fellow workers,business partners, or friends. Message could be sent and received at theconvenience of the individual. A letter that took several days to arrive could be read in minutes. Internetservice providers like America Online and CompuServe set up electronic Chatrooms. These were open areas Of cyberspace where interested parties couldjoin in a conversation with perfect strangers. "Surfing the net" became apastime in and of itself. Consequently, companies whose businesses are built on digitizedinformation have become valuable and powerful in relatively short period oftime; the current Information Age has spawned its own breed of wealthyinfluential brokers from Microsoft's Bill Gates to Apple's Steve Jobs toFacebook's Mark Zuckerberg. Nowadays, crimes in various forms are rampant because of the use of socialmedia. Cyber bullying is an issue that poses alarm worldwide.APPLICATIONS OF COMPUTERS INSCIENCE AND RESEARCH One of the significant applications of computers for science and research isevident in the field of bioinformatics. Bioinformatics is the application ifinformation technology to store, organize, and analyze was amount ofbiological data which is available in the forms of sequences and structures ofproteins — the building blocks of organisms and nucleic acids — theinformation carrier. The human brain cannot store all the genetic sequences of organisms andthis huge amount of data can only be stored, analyzes, and be usedefficiently with the use of computers.APPLICATIONS OF COMPUTERS INSCIENCE AND RESEARCH SWISSPROT protein sequence database, was initiated in 1986. Some of the software tools which are handy in the analysis include: BLAST (used for comparing sequences) Annotator (an interactive genome analysis tool) GeneFinder (tool to identify coding regions and splice Sites) The sequence information generated by the human genome research initiated in 1988,has now been stored as primary information source for future applications in medicine.APPLICATIONS OF COMPUTERS INSCIENCE AND RESEARCH Moreover, from the pharmaceutical industry's point of view, bioinformatics is the keytorational drug discovery. Molecular modelling, which requires a lot of calculations, has become faster due to theadvances in computer processors and its architecture (Madan,n.d). In plant biotechnology, bioinformatics is found to be useful in the areas of identifyingdiseases genes and designing plants with high nutrition value (Madan, n.d.).HOW TO CHECK THE RELIABILITY OFWEB SOURCESThe internet contains a vast collection of highly valuable information but it may also containunreliable, biased information that mislead people. Who is the author Of the article/site? HOW to find out?Look for an "About" or "More About the Author" link at the top, bottom, or sidebar of the web page. If noinformation about the author(s) of the page is provided, be suspicious,One Can also visit the university library and seek help from librarians as they are knowledgeable and in thelibrary has a rich collection of online library resources that are very useful for academic and research purposes.SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY, ANDSOCIETYChapter III: Specific Issues in Science,Technology, and SocietyLESSON 1: THE INFORMATION AGEThe Information Age “Period starting in the last quarter of the 20thcentury when information became effortlesslyaccessible through publications and throughthe management of information by computersand computer networks” Also called the Digital Age and the New MediaAge because it was associated with thedevelopment of computersHistoryTimeline of the Information AgeComputer among the most important contributions of advances in the Information Age to society. an electronic device that stores and process data(information) Runs on a program that contains the exact, stepbystepdirections to solve a problem(Ushistory.org,2017)Computer Types of Computer1. Personal Computer (PC)  any small, relatively inexpensive computer designed for an individual user  are singleuser systems and are based on microprocessors.2. Desktop Computer  A computer of a size designed to be used on a desk or table, set up in a permanent spot  offer more storage, power and versatilityComputer Types of Computer3. Laptops also known as notebooks, are portablecomputers that you can take with youand use in different environments Portable computers that integrate theessentials of a desktop in a batterypoweredpackage4. Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) a palmtop computer that functions as a personalorganizer but also provides email and Internetaccess. No keyboards but rely on a touch screen foruser inputComputer Types of Computer5. Server a computer designed to process requestsand deliver data to another computer overthe internet or a local network. boast powerful processors, tons ofmemory and large hard drivesComputer Types of Computer6. MainframeA data processing system employed mainly in largeorganizations for various applications, including bulkdata processing, process control, industry and consumerstatistics, enterprise resource planning, and financialtransaction processing.Computer7. Wearable Computer  a digital device that is either strapped to or carried on a user's body. It is usedmost often in research that focuses on behavioral modeling, health monitoringsystems, IT and media development, where the person wearing the computeractually moves or is otherwise engaged with his or her surroundings  Traditional uses are for mobile industrial inspection, maintenance and themilitaryThe World Wide Web (Internet) Internet is a worldwide system of interconnectednetworks that facilitate data transmission amonginnumerable computers. Internet was used mainly by scientists to communicatewith other scientists; by Department of Defense in case ofattack; it remained under government control until 1984. One early problem faced by Internet users was speed. Thedevelopment of fiberoptic cables allowed for billions ofbits of information to be received every minute. New forms of communication were also introduced, fromElectronic mail, or email which was a suitable way to senda message to electronic chat rooms… “Surfing the net” became a pastime in and of itself.Applications of Computers in Science and Research Human brain cannot store all the geneticsequences of organisms and this huge amount ofdata can only be stored, analyzed, and be usedefficiently with the use of computers. One of the significant applications of computersfor science and research is evident in the field ofbioinformatics. Bioinformatics is the application of informationtechnology to store, organize, and analyze vastamount of biological data such as the humangenomeInformation age, which progressed from theinvention of the printing press to thedevelopment of numerous social mediaplatforms, has immensely influenced the livesof the people.The impact of these innovation can beadvantageous or disadvantageous dependingon the use of these technologies.SUMMARY Nowadays, information could be shared ortransferred quickly. Various aspects of our society are alsobeing influenced by the Information Ageespecially communication, economics,industry, health, and the environment. The rapid upgrade of information posesboth positive and negative impacts to oursociety.The information ageA period in history characterized byA change in focus from industry to informationGrowth of technologyInformation explosionEducation in the information age The use of technology in education is a reflection ofwhat is happening on a much larger scale in ourcommunities We are in a period of history often referred to as theinformation age , the the information age ischaracterized by a change in focus from industry toinformation Educators in the information age are becoming facilitators oflearning rather than providers of information. The need formemorization of the information becomes less important thanthe ability to think critically. They are helping individuals tolearn how to refine a problem, to find the information theyneed, and to critically evaluate the information they find.The impact of technology on the teacherand the learnerThe information age technology has had a significantinfluence on educators and learners for a number ofreasons. Most importantly ,Learning has become a shared responsibility. Teacher hastaken on the role of facilitator as the access to informationbridge the gap between teacher and learner. Wheninformation is widely available ,it is no longer necessaryfor the teacher to find', filter and deliver the content .Therefore , the teacher is no longer the person who holdsall of the answers or the individual who is solelyresponsible for imparting the informationEducators must structure their approach to TeachingProfession to be consistent with the needs of theinformation age clients. The nurse must be prepared to bea facilitator of learning by healping clients to access,evaluate and use the wide range of information that isavailable. The nurse must also learn how and when touse technology and remain current as new technology —based tools become available in order to optimize eachlearning experience. Like consumer, health professional in the informationage can use the Internet and the World Wide Web asvehicles for sharing resources and for gaining accessto the most current information in their field Computer have made it possible to provide anytime,anywhere accesses to job training and continuingeducation. Viritual reality and computer simulation canopen up opportunities to learn handson skills anddevelop competencies in areas such as diagnosticreasoning and problem solvingComputer Literacy The ability to use the computer hardware and softwarenecessary to accomplish routine tasksInformation LiteracyThe ability to:Intormation literacyA client who is informationterate knows how to find thenformation needed and canevaluate the informationfounded for accuracy,currency and bias.computer literacyA client who is computerliterate has the technicalskills and knowledge ofcomputers necessary to usecontemporary hardware andsoftware and can adapt tonew technologies thatemerge.Access needed informationEvaluate information foundOrganize informationUse information from a variety of sourcesConsumer InformaticsA field of study that are directed to find ways to usetechnology to strengthen the relationship between clientand health care providers as well as to teach andempower clients dealing with issues related to health andwellnessModels/integrates consumer preferences into medicalinformation systemsStrategies tor using technology inhealth care educationA preteaching assessment of a client in the informationage must begin with questions about computer use. Because the web can be so influential, it is important todetermine that the information a client has found isaccurate, complete and fully understood. It is important for nurses to establish early in theirrelationship with clients that they are interested in talkingwith them about the information they have gathered fromthe web or other resources they have available to them.Client need to feel that nurses are open to discussingwhatever information they find. They need to understandthat nurses are a partner in seeking the best informationavailable.I. Online Healthcare Education1. World Wide web (WWW)World Wide Web (WWW): A technical definition of theWorld Wide Web is all the resources and users on theInternet that are using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol(HTTP) that provides access to images, videos , soundand textthe world wide web is the most familiar technologybased educational recourses InternetAs it is provides unlimited resources for nurses to use inpractice and in professional education anddevelopment. Web sites provide access to bibliographicdatabases, continuing education, online journals andresources for patient teaching and professional practice.It is important to conduct a teaching session with healthconsumers about computer access in order to toprovide the nurse educator with the opportunity toreview webbased information with the client.determine the type and amount of information to whichthe client has been exposed and assess the clientsknowledge and identify areas in which the client mayhave need for further teaching.find information that needs further discussion.2. InternetThe World Wide Web (WWW) is merely a small componentof the much larger computer net work called internet.The internet service most likely to be of interest to nurseeducators includes those that allow computerfacilitatedcommunication such asgtéP5 to déVélöP website informätiöt*l literäeyskillsHealthcare consumers may not have the backgroundknowledge to evaluate information to the same extent asa professional, they can be taught some simple steps todevelop their information literacy skills and to help thembegin to identify which web sites are useful and which areproblematic. These steps are:EmailMailing listsElectronic discussion groupOnline chatsReduce a problem to a searchable commandCategorize a Web page according to its purposeIdentify sources of potential biasMake judgments about the accuracy and reliability ofinformation foundMake decisions about the comprehensiveness of informationfoundDetermine currencyIdentify resources to answer questions or verify assumptionsabout content of a webpageThe nurse can teach clients who access the web to use it moreeffectively and can be proactive in encouraging others to give ita try.Internetbased CommunicationThe internet services most likely to be of interest to nurseeducators include those that allow computer facilitatedcommunication that have been used to communicate withpeople about health and healthcare such as ;EmailElectronic discussion groupsMailing listsBlogs, online forums, message boards, bulletin boardsOnline chatsDiscussion Boards Privacy ;ensure that the user' s rights to privacy isprotected Professionalism in online health care ;A bide by the ethicalcode of your profession (nursing ,medicine), provide theusers with the information about who you are, what you cando online and which limitations may apply to the onlineinteraction Responsible Partnering ; ensure that sponsors ,partnersand others who works with you are trustworthy Accountability ; Implement procedure for collecting,reviewing and responding to user feedback . Develop andshare procedures for selfmonitoring compliance with the eHealth Codes of EthicsEHealth Code of EthicsCandor ;disclose the information about the creators nlpurpose of the site that will help users make judgment aboutthe creditability and trustworthiness of information orservice providedHonesty ;truthful in describing products and presentinformation that is not likely to mislead the userQuality, ensure that information is accurate, easy tounderstood and provide background informationInformed Consent; inform the user if personal information iscollected and allow them to choose whether the informationcan be used or sharedII. Social MediaThe health care industry has begun to recognize the potentialof social media to educate and empower people quicklysend messages ta worldwide audience and to gatherinformation about public perceptions of health issues.Blogs, WikisConsumers may turn to these for healthrelated information toshare knowledge and experience in a specific topic.Many of the blogs found on the web are health related and thecreators tell a story about their experience in a given disease ortreatment.Wiki are more social in their construction as multiple users cometogether on a wiki to collaboratively write the content ofcollections of webpages Facebook, Twitter, YouTubeAll are other social media tools that can be employed by nursefor educational purposesWith these media , users create their own profile pages whereinformation, pictures, and other forms of media such as blogsfor comments can be posted.e WebcastsAre live broadcasts over the Internet that growing inpopularity as a training device that permit audio\video to betransmitted to participants in multiple locations .Although webcast do not allow for interaction , they aregrowing in popularity as a training device for sharing lectureand demonstrationsDistance Education Distance education for nurses is flourishing in the 21stcentury where degree programs are offered at all levels(Billings 2007). Distance education means different things to differentpeople , the Internet is primary vehicle for deliveringdistance education . Online courses, correspondencecourses, independent study and videoconferencingare just a few of the techniques that can be used todeliver education to students studying at a distance WebinarsAre webbased conferencing that allow for interaction and whenwell run, can be an effective teaching \ learning strategy withgroup of people at distance Mobile Learning The word mobile referes to both to the use of portabletechnologies such as MP3 player to the end user —the mobileadult who can truly learn any where ,any time ,any place .Mobile devices can be used for a wide range o activities andwith both clients in the clinical area and students in theacademic area. These activities include accessing websites,listening to the lectures, or broadcasts, recording experience,and assignments and participating in learning focused gamesWhen distance education programs introduced , theyquite controversial .For example when Regents External Degree programwas first created in 1974,many people believed that adistance model was inappropriate for nursing education.Today , Regents External Degree program ,now known asExcelsior College, ,is one of the largest nursing program inthe world ,with more than 1,6000nursing studentsenrolled in associate, baccelora and master degreeprogram In 1994, janother milestone was reached in nursingeducation when Duquesne University in Pennsylvaniaopened the first online distance education programleading to a PhD in nursing Excelsior College& Duquesne University are just a fewexamples of distance education in nursing in USA . Standards and guidelines for quality in distanceeducation have been developed by several educationorganizations to main effective educational programsState of the EvidenceLarge body of research investigating effect of distanceeducation technologies on student outcomes.Growing body of research on use of technology in patienteducation.science technology and societies thisis another chapterfor our lessons and today we're going totalk about the information ageas a whole okay and after this therewill be batch of videos a lotmore um that will be um the second orthe third or the continuing videos forthe information age or special issuesin science technology and society sosince we're starting towe're going to start rather to enter theinformation age or knowmore about the information age so weshould know or defineum correctly what do we mean when we sayinformationso what is information for you maybe youcan think of itfor for a minute or two you can pausethe video for thatokay so whatever you have composed ofwhat information is um let me give youthe answerthere okay so knowledge informationas said by webster's encyclopedicdictionaryis knowledge communicated or obtainedconcerning a specific fact orcircumstance so that's informationaccording to thisfamous website's dictionary these arealso factsprovided or learned about something orsomeoneso that's what you mean when you sayinformationfurthermore there are um the informationageokay is a period starting in the lastquarter of the 20thcentury again in the last quarter of the20th centuryinformation became effortlesslyaccessiblethrough publications and through themanagement of informationby computers and computer networks thisis taken fromvocabulary.com okay and we have alsothisage okay called the digital age and alsothe new media ageokay so again um these are under theinformation ageso the information age is said to be atruenew age so the information age is a truenew age based upon the interconnectionof computersvia telecommunications wireless we cansay thatwith this information systems operationoperating on both a realtime and asneeded basisfurthermore the primary factors drivingthis new ageforward are convenience anduserfriendliness which in turn a littlebit of bad sidewill create user dependence okay this isticket fromjames r messenger from his book theoryof information age1982 okay so certainlyum in the next part this is this is onlyan introduction a very briefintroduction to whatthe information age will will will offerto usin the next video we're going to talkabout the timeline of the informationagethe the brief details okay very briefbut it's the details of the historyof the information age so that's it forinformation age gutenberg to socialmediajohannes gottenberg was born in the 14thcentury in maine's germany he diedprobably on february 3 1468 in maine'she is a german craftsman and inventorwho originated a method of printing frommovable typegutenberg was the sign of a patrician ofmains what little information existsabout him other than that he hadacquired skill in metal work comes fromthe documents of financial transactionsgottenberg was long thought to have alsoinvented the punch matrix system ofcasting metal type in which a characterengraved on one end of a hard metal rodthe punch was used to strike animpressioninto a softer metal plate the matrixinto which molten metal was poured toform any number of virtually identicalpieces of timethe information age was also called asthe computer age the digital age and thenew media age during this age movabletype printing was introduced and thegutenberg era was established theinformation age shapes the nature ofsociety in its underlying institutionsit has its principle which is themassive distribution of information inan expensive manner because it isinstitutionalizedthe pregothenburg worldduring the time when printing press wasnot yet availableinformation could be processed in atenderness mannerbooks were written and produced by handthey were made in surfaces of claywoks papers and parchmentthe hand produced books and otherreading materials were restricted onlyto those people who can afford to buythese materials called as the elitegroup of peopleinformation was only related to otherthrough a wordofmouth channelsin the form of information that wasprevalent was therefore the storythis being the form best adapted tosurviving the process of chinesewhispers that mass communicationinvolvedinstitutional development was limitedand society tended to be dominated byreligion and feudal political systemsinstitutions which were well adapted tothe use of narrative or hierarchy asmeans of propagation or controlthe postgothenburg worldthe emergence of the internet and theworld wide web in the 1990s wasinitially hailed by many as ushering innew democratic age driven by muchgreater access to informationthis changed with two developmentsfirst the spread of broadband internetaccess made it possible to easily bothupload and download all forms of mediasuch as video images andaudio as well as just text andtransactionssecondtools emerged which made it simple forpeople to publish or spread informationblogging was the first example followedby social networking and distributionand sharing sites like youtube andflickrinformation can now flow between oneindividual and of the potentialindividuals for whom that informationmight be of relevance without any formof significant institutionalizedintervention except the provision of afreely available technologicalinfrastructurethe gutenberg revolutionthe invention of the printing pressallowed for worldwide changes to takeplace democracy was born through theinvention of the printing press and theeffects it had in society it allowedpeople to have a voice who weren't ableto spread their messages beforeit allowed people to read the bible intheir own language or reformationleaving it free for their interpretationthe printing press made literaturepossible as a wholeprinted text taught people thediscipline of literacy a powerful toolused to understand text in basiccommunicationif it weren't for printed text andliteracy there would have been no way torecord such media as hard copyhistory and present ideas restored andeventually used to make vast changes insocietal norms in europe it worked welldue to its transparencybesides allowing the bible to be readilyavailable the printing press was used tohelp start the renaissance without theability to transmit massive amounts ofinformation the renaissance could neverhappencomputerscomputers was invented by charles davisan english mechanical engineer andconsidered the father of computersthis technology was designed formathematical calculations and simpledecision making capabilities themainframe computers were a largeroomsized computer that provide peopledata calculation and manipulation fasterthan the human brain personal computersalso available which gave everyindividual access to computersthe internetthe internet is a system architecturethat has revolutionized communicationsand methods of commerce by allowingvarious computer networks around theworld to interconnectsometimes referred to as a network ofnetworksthe internet emerged in the unitedstates in the 1970s but did not becomevisible to the general public until theearly 1990s by 2020 approximately 4.5billion people or more than or more thanhalf of the world's population wereestimated to have access to the internetthe internet provides a capability sopowerful in general that it can be usedfor almost any purpose that depends oninformation and it is accessible byevery individual who connects to one ofits constituent networksit supports human communication viasocial media electronic mail or emailchat rooms news groups and audio andvideo transmission and allows people towork collaboratively at many differentlocations it supports access to digitalinformation by many applicationsincluding the world wide webthe internet has provided to be aspawning groundfor a large and growing number ofebusinessincludingsubsidiaries of traditional brick andmortar companies that carry out most oftheir sales and services over theinternetthe world wide web the world wide webwas invented by sir tim bernerslee abritish computer scientist the worldwide web which is also known as a webis a collection of websites or web pagesstored in web servers and connected tolocal computers through the internetusers can access the content of thesesites from any part of the world overthe internet using their devices such ascomputers laptops cell phones and etcelectric mail or email it was created byva shiva ayadurai his claim is based onan electronic mail software called emailits messages are transmitted andreceived by digital computers through anetwork an email system allows computerusers on a network to send text graphicssounds and animated images to otherusersthe most commonly used social mediaplatforms facebook instagram twittergoogle youtube and messengerinformations regarding each social mediaplatforms will be discussed in thefollowing slidesmark elliot zuckerberg is an americanmedia magnet internet entrepreneur andphilanthropist he is known forcofounding meta platforms incorporatedand serves as chairman chief executiveofficer and controlling shareholder hewas born on may 14 1984 in white plainsnew york united states his current networth is 122 billion us dollars that isaccording to forbes international heattended school at harvard university inthe year 20022004twitter is an american micro bloggingand social networking service in whichusers post and interact with messageknown as twitsregistered users can post like andretweet tweets but unregistered userscan only read those that are publiclyavailable it was founded on march 212006 at san francisco california unitedstates the ceo is jack dursey as ofseptember 30 2015 its headquarters orsan francisco california united statesfounders or jack dursee bistoneevan williams and noah glossmessenger is an instant messaging appand platform developed by meta platformsoriginally developed as facebook chat in2008 the company revamped its messagingservice in 2010 and subsequentlyreleased standalone ios and android opsin august 2011 and standalone facebookportal hardware for messenger basedcalling in 2018 later on facebook launcha dedicated website interface known asmessenger.com and separated themessaging functionality from the mainfacebook app allowing users to use theweb interface or download one of thestandalone apps in april 2020 facebookofficially released messenger fordesktop which is supported on whenwindows 10 and macand distributed on macros microsoftstore and app store respectivelyits developer is meta platforms and itis available in 111 languagesits initial release was on august 92011. it is exactly 10 years agogoogle llc is an american multinationaltechnology company that specializes ininternet related services and productswhich include online advertisingtechnologies a search engine cloudcomputing software and hardware it wasfounded on september 4 1998 at menlopark california united states theheadquarters are mountain viewcalifornia united statesfounders are larry page and sergey brinyoutube is an american online videosharing and social media platform ownedby google it was launched on february 142005 by steve chen chad hurley andgeorge karim it is the second mostvisited website with more than onebillion monthly users who collectivelywatch more than one billion hours ofvideos each day the ceo is susan wojcikfounded it was founded on february 142005 and san mateo california unitedstates the foundersare joined kareem chad hurley andstepheninstagram is an american photo and videosharing social networking servicefounded by kevin systrom and mikekrieger in april 2012facebook incorporated acquired theservice for approximately 1 billion usdollar in cash and stackit was launched on october 6 2010. theoriginal author is kevin systrom andmike krieger the developers are now metaplatforms or formerly known as facebookincorporated the information age so this isour lesson number seven entitled theinformation age so we will be discussingabout it we will be discussing thethe impact of technological advancementto our society we will be discussing thehistory of technological advancement anddo you think there is a relationshipbetween technology and humans okay sopossibly there isokay soin this lesson is you will get to knowthe history and the impact oftechnological advancement to societyand because of because everything now ishighly automated we are so influencedwith a lot of things we are we are somodernand we are so data datadriven peopleare into a lot oftechnology so this is our society nowand i would say it isit is a very fastpaced environmentbecause of our technologicaladvancement so this is the main reasonwhy information why we are sooverwhelmed with a lot of informationinformationcould be transferred and shared quicklyso we can receive information we can asksome relevant information information isgoing everywhereand that's how we are influenced by alot of information that we receivedevery dayand sometimes we are a bit affected withall the informations we get especiallyin social media in our digital worldbut despite our gains due to the growingdevelopment of information technology wecan't deny the fact the fact that thereis the downside of technologicaladvancement that there is somedisadvantages of doingdoing some a lot oftechnological advancementokay so we will talk about it one by oneso we will discuss it and try to explainit in a very simple wayabout this idea the information ageokay so i hope you're all excited to tolearn something out of this very quickdiscussionokay soas what you've noticedour life life is accompanied by endlesstransmission of information that takesplace within and outside the human bodytherefore our life isassociated with a lot of information andwe are so overwhelmed with the thingsthat are happening around us and that ispart of informationokay soinformation is defined as an importanttool for survivalit meansif you want to survive if you want tosurvive in this kind of society in thiskind of life you need to acquire a lotof information you need to equipyourself to become better you need tolearn a lot of things you need to becompetitive especially in this time ofinformation age or the digital ageyou need to catch up with the thingsthat are happening nowthat's why it is definedbased on my research information isdefined as a tool foris an important tool for survivaland because our life is accompanied by alot of endless transmission ofinformation when we talk about endlesswe cannot stop informationinformation will always be there willalways be part of our livesthat's why sometimes we are so affectedwith a lot of information we are soaffected withwith the peop with how the people aredoing in social media or in the digitalage and that's how our life works nowokay sothe information age is also called thedigital ageand this is the digital age we are nowabsorbed absorbing the essence of ourdigital agebefore i was not used in talking infront of the camerai am very shytalking in front of my camera i am notconfident i am not comfortable doingthis but because of the idea of digitalagent i need to change or embrace thiskind of and i need to survive in thiskind of life right so i can't stop theendless transmission of informationso i think this is a good waythis is the positive way oftechnological advancementyou are not having a hard timecontacting your friends outsidephilippines it is very easy for you tospeak what your what you are thinking ofasian age or the digital age is clearlyknown to beis clearly associated with thedevelopment of computersbecause of the development of computerslaptops and a lot of thingsour generation now our society now isalready considered as a digital agebecause we are using a lot of digitalsto send communication to sendinformation to talk with a lot of thingsand to express what you are thinking ofand this is our digital age we are usinga lot of platforms like the youtubeinstagramwhat else facebook so it's easy for usto send information and there is anendless transmission of information whenit comes to our digital ageokay soone of the primary factorsthat drives our digital age forwardthere are a lot of things that pushesourthat pushes our digital age forwardnumber one is convenience we are usingdigital age because it gives usconvenience rightuser friendliness it's easy to sendinformation it's easy to communicatewith your friends becauseit's just one click away it's easy to dovideo call because of the digitaltransformationnext iswhat elseit gives comfort it gives us comfortwhat the downside the downside ofthis digital age which in turn willcreate user dependenceand sometimes because of the because ofthe influence of our digitalagesometimes we become so dependent withinformationand we don't know how to classify ifthat information is real or notso we just absorb a lot of informationnot thinking if that is true or not sothat's why we need tothat's why that's a downside of engagingtoo much influence on the digital age wetend to become super dependentsuper dependent with with a lot ofinformation even if sometimes it's nottrue it's just fake news right so weneed to know that becausethere is an endless transmission ofinformation and we can't stopinformation we can only we can onlycontrol ourselves as a userusbut we can't stop themrightsoas humans as what you can seewe are continuously evolving as humanswhat i mean evolving is we are changingwe areimproving and as well asthe way we talkas well as the way we send informationit's evolving and it'sit's changingright informationdisseminationalso evolvedso in various ways so we arecontinuously evolving as humans areevolving the same as informationso we no longerwe no longer keep things from ourselveswe no longer keep things that are veryimportant to ourselves we share itonlinewe we promote it onlinebecause it's easy for us toto to sell something it's easy for us topersuadea lot of people but by how you think andit's easy for us to share a lot ofinformationbecause information and dissemination itis continuously changing it iscontinuously evolvingokay so sometimes we return it difficultfor us to control ourselvesin social mediawe find it hard to manage ourour digital identity because ofinformation so that's the downside ofengaging ourselves too much in the ideaof information age we no longer keepthings in privatewe we always express ourselves publiclyand sometimes because of informationpeople have the right to to send youcomments and if you receive a lot ofcomments sometimes especially if it'snegative sometimes itit lower your selfesteemsometimes we get hurt because of thatbecause of that comment right so it'sit's not easy for us to manage ourdigital identity especially when we areso engrossed with digital informationokay so information get ahead of usmeaninginformation is very fastsoeverything that is going on around usinformation always is always thereinformation get ahead of usno matter what we do no matter what wesaypeople aresharing a lot of things people areare doing a lot of stuff on social mediaand sometimes we are surprised with thethings that are happening now becauseinformationgot ahead of usokay so because of the abundance ofinformation we are so overwhelmed withinformationwe are so unprepared to handle ourselvesbecause of the idea that we aretransferring or sharing a lot ofinformation sometimes we are mission wetend to to not think welland just do the sharing without thinkingithow many timesso that is the idea of the abundance ofinformationso according to richard worman heclearly stated thatandthat the digital age he called thedigital age the information anxiety sowhat do you mean by information anxietyinformation anxiety it means thatbecause of because of the abundance ofinformation because we are sooverwhelmed with a lot of things that ishappening nowwe feel so anxious withthe things that we arewe feel so anxious with and with how wereceived informationwe it lowers our selfesteemit lowered down our selfconfidencebecause ofthe information anxiety according torichard vermanokay so because we always we alwaysthink that we need information becauseinformation is part of life it is partof our survival we cannot live withoutinformation we cannot live withoutsocial media and a lot of things areare making us anxious because of the theendless transmission of informationeven if if it is not true sometimes weget hurtright so that's that's the idea ofrichard wormanthis digitalage or the information agehe called it as the information anxietyokay sowe are so overloaded with informationokaydespite we feel anxious despite we feelwe feel down with social media still wecan say thatinformation is a very important toolfor survivalwhy is it so becauseit helps it helps us improve our way oflifebecause of information we are soadvancedand that is and that is good because ofinformationwe do a lot of things in advanceit's easy for us to send to shareand to do like this like doing some blogit's easy at the same time you can alsoget money out of this digital age rightso that is that is the essence ofinformation ageokay sobut there is only one thing for surewhen you talk about information ageinformation age will continue to moveforwardit will not stopit is endlessso it isthe goal is to move forward and fargreater than our minds could imagine sowhen you talk about informationit is far greater than our minds couldimagineso the information is widespreadinformation that isthat is very crucial so the way wereceive information we need to thinkfirstto do a lot of validation if that istrueright so we need to to classify thingswhatif that is true or not so that's how wemove forward with informationand we can't stop that what we can onlycontrol is ourselves on how we deal withthat kind of informationhow we respond with that kind ofinformationokay so another person another personis robert harrisso robert harrishe wrote an article entitled two wordsof the information ageand hehe gives us a little information aboutthe idea of information agenumber onewhen you talk about information ageyou are what you eat and so is yourbrainaccording to himit's not me who is telling you thisaccording to mr robert harris isyou are what you eat and so is yourbrain so meaning if you sharing a lot ofthings like this a lot of videos likethis meaning it is a simple reflectionof how you think about yourself it is asimple reflection of your ownpersonalityyou like to share some good vibes youlike to share some happy videos becauseyou are a happy person possibly that iscorrectokay i love to share some biblical codesbecause possibly that is my mypersonalityokay so it is a bit ofa bit of information about you so whenyou share something on social media solet's all be careful in sharing andand sending comments because possibly itis also a reflection of yourselfokay number two description is accordingto himisideas are seen as controversial so whenyou talk about information age there area lot of concept a lot of ideas andideas are wide spreading it's runningthereforea lot of people also question if that istrue or not and it's normal in theinformation age it's normal that peoplewill question you that if that is trueor notokay the third descriptionisselection is a viewpointokay so when you talk about selection isa viewpoint ishow youhow you send or share comments it reallydepends on you on how you view thingsif you think that that is good or thatis that is not good that is right orthat is wrong it really depends on yourown point of view take note we havedifferent point of view so it's how youit's how you think it's how you shareand it's how you perceive thingsthat's why robert harris is telling usinformation age selection is a viewpointokayanything the fourth one is anything ingreat demand will be counterfeitedsoif you have a videoand it's viral possibly people will copyitright like for tiktok what is trendywhat is viral people are copying soanything in great demand will becounterfeitedokay soif you send videos that is one millionviews possibly people are also copyingthat kind of video and they are alsodoing what you are doing because that istrending and that is in demandokayso there are a lot of there are a lotmore description when you talk aboutrobert harris so i'll just explain toyousome so it's only four for descriptionbut the main idea here is let's all becareful in sending or sharing ourpersonalpreference on social media we need to becareful because information iswidespreading and information isit has an endless transmission we cannotstop it we can only control ourselvesokay socomputers are among the most importantcontribution of advances in theinformation agecomputers are very importantto us now right we have laptops we havecell phones and a lot of thingsokay peopleare so engaged with digital age nowokay they are so attached with itbecause yes it's true computers helpedus very very muchlike fordoing some research doing some uhmanaginghuge data socomputers really helped humankindokayso that is the mostthat is the most importantinvention in in this time of digital ageone of that iscomputer okaysoas we all know that people now we are weare sooverwhelmed with a lot of informationand sometimes it really affects us as aperson but we should not letthat informationuhbe part of us because sometimes thatinformationmay not bemay not be asas good as what you think maybe you arealready affected by it psychologicallyso we need to be careful and we need toclearly assess of can you talk aboutinformation ageokaythe same the idea the internettake note that the internet has uhthe internet really helped humankindlike this one uploading your video youneed internet so a kind because becauseof internet it is easy for us toto send informationto receive information because ofinternet but the downside of it isbecause of internet because of theinterconnected and networks because of alot of information every day we receivea lot of information every day sometimesthe information that we are receiving isis not reliableit is served as a bias information thatsometimes misled peopleokay so we need to be careful inin doing or in dealing with our digitalage or the information age becausewe cannot stop it it is already thereand the main goal of information is tomove forward so as humans we also needto move forward despite the endlesstransmission of informationimpact ofinformation ageso now let's proceed sir sir what isinformation age the information age alsoknown as computer age or digital age ornew media age began around in 1970s andis still going on today this era broughtabout a time period in which peoplecould access information and knowledgeeasily a period in human historycharacterized by the ship fromtraditional industry that the industrialrevolution brought throughindustrialization to an economy based onthe information computerization theinformation age brought about a many newinvention and innovation the current erain which relatively much larger amountof information are widely availablegenerally through network platformsthe information age is a true new agebase upon the interconnection ofcomputer via telecommunication with thisinformation system operating on both atreal time as a needed basis furthermorethe primary factors driving the new ageforward are convenience and userfriendliness which in turn will createuser dependency according to james ourmessenger judy of information age 1982so now we will showcase to you how muchinformation age has done to us but firstlet's present how it was before soul btrin the point before the introduction ofthe printing press it was not possibleto distribute precise reputableinformation to a large number of peopleinformation could be captured in thelaborious and time consuming process ofhand produced books skulls or tabletsvision of knowledge thereafter had torely on purely word of mouth channelsand the point of information that wasprevalent was there for the story herewe see a simple group of studentsenjoying what they have back in the 70sbooks and newspapers per hip and wereprimary sources of informationnow let's see how it isof internet and the world wide web inthe 1990s was initially hailed by manyas using a new democratic age that eventby much greater access to informationthe reality of much greater access toinformation was not much by the greaterability to publish it social media doesnot just benefit individuals but it alsobenefit businesses as well this siteallows all businesses to advertise andmarket service to a large audience and aprofile is free to set so now let'sproceed to our next reporter good dayi'm asinet odanil and i will going todiscuss the historical development ofinformation age so the information ageis a historical period that began in themid 20th century it characterized byerapid ethical ship from the traditionalindustry established by the industrialrevolution to an economy primarily basedupon information technologyand it can distinguish by threedifferent longterm metapharadine thetransforming tools transforming energyand transforming information and thefirst focus on that transformation ofmaterial including stonebronze and ironso first is the stone age so the stoneage was a road prehistoric period whichis stone was widely used to make toolsso it's stone tools is the most generalsense any tool made either partially orentirely out of stone and stone toolswere used to make weapons for fightinghunting fishing and carving wood and theperiod lasted for roughly 3.4 millionyears around 2000 bce with the advent ofmetal workingsecond is the bronze age so bronze ageis a historic period approximately 3 300bc to 1200 bc and it was characterizedby the use of bronze and in some areasprotowriting and other early picturesof urban civilizations and the bros agemark the first time humans started towork with metal and bronze tools areweapons like rose access that last muchlonger than stone tools and humans mademany technological advances during thebronze age including the first writingsystem and the inventions of the willand the third age is the iron age it isthe final effort of the three agedivisions of the frey story andprotohistory of humanity it waspreceded by the bronze age and stone ageand the iron age begins 1200 bc locallywhen the productions of tools andweapons was made from typically alloyswith a carbon content of iron or steelor advanced weftwands in common use andiron was tougher than bronze so thepeoples of the iron age become capableto make sharp tools like swords andspears thank you miss aznet danila i ama lady lympedex limpidegsman and for thecontinuation of our discussion which isthe historical development ofinformation age the second oftenreferred to as industrial revolution wasdedicated to the transformation ofenergythe industrial revolution was thetransition to new manufacturingprocesses in britaincontinental europe and the united statesin the period from between 1760 to 1820and 1840the industrial revolution also led to anunprecedented rise in the rate ofpopulation growth including water powerhydropower also known as water power isthe use of falling or pass running waterto produce electricity or to power amachine since asian times hydropowerfrom water mills has been used as arenewable energy source for irrigationand the operation of mechanical devicesthe steam power a steam engine is a heatengine that performs mechanical workusing a steam as its working fluid thethermistive engine is generally appliedonly to reciprocating engines as justdescribed not to the steam turbine theelectric power electric power is usuallyproduced by electric generators but canalso be supplied by the sources such aselectric batteries electric power can bedelivered long over distances bytransmissions lines and use perapplication such as motion light or heatwith high efficiency and the combustionpower the term internal combustionengine usually refers to an engine inwhich convention is intermittent thefirst commercially successful internalconvention engine was created around1860 and the first mother internalconvention engine was created in 1876 bynicolas otto finally the most recentmeta paradigm aims at transforminginformation it started out with theproliferation of communication it is theact of developing meaning among entitiesor groups through the use ofsufficiently mutually understood signssymbols and semiotic conventions and thestored data data storage is therecording or storing of information ordata in a storage medium handwritingphotographic recording magnetic teethand optical digs are all examples ofstorage media proliferation ofcommunication and stored data which aimsat creating automated processes toconvert the existing information intoactionable knowledge good day everyoneso now i will discuss the timeline ofthe information age so let's start to3000 bc or before christ in this erasumerian writing system you speak togrubs to represent words so it is starton sumerian civilization firstcivilization in mesopotamia that knownfor their innovation in languagegovernance architecture and more in thisera cuneiform and ginagamit nilato markson clay tablets when we say cuneiform itmeans red shape that made by means ofblack red for a stylus or more linear sohere is the example of clay tabletnumber two2900 bc beginnings of egyptianhieroglyphic script hyrule means holyglypho means writing so it is a combinedlogographic syllabic and alphabeticelements that the characters inhieroglyphic script are more detailed sohere are the examples of hieroglyphicalphabet number three1300 bc so the toy shell and oraclebones writing were used when we sayoracle bones it is a shoulder blades ofoxen or plastrons of turtles so when wesay plastrons etho young pinnacleturtlesnext carapace outer shell of turtlesused during the shang dynasty fordivination so when we say karapesanamanturtlesnumber 4 500 bc papyrus role was used sohere is the example of papyrus roll whenwe say papaya rose it is made from aplant flexible smooth surface whichaccepts and retains ink without blur orsmudgenumber 5 2200bcso in this era small seal script andginagamitso it is an archive or arcade form ofchinese calligraphy and it isit was still widely used for decorativeengraving and seals in the han dynastyso it is preserved on numerous stoneused for official documents andceremonial purposes so here is theexample of a small script number sixin a 180 or anno domini they had a bookit is called parchment contextreplacement of a for papyrus roll sowhen we say parchment made from the skinof an animal so all these books madefrom compiled parchment so one of theexample is the bible miss de la crossemika joanna will continue the discussionabout timelines of the information thankyou miss diego so good day everyone i amnika joanna de la cruz from biped 4b soi will continue thetimeline of information ageso number seven in the year of 105.80wood block printing and paper wasinvented by chinese so good blackprinting looks like imagesor letters in the chinese is beingcarved in reverse to a piece of a woodand then the wood would be inked andwill be printedin a piece of paper or on a fabricink was made fromplants pigments animals liquid oranimals bile number eight in the year of1455 johannes guttenberg invented themovable printing press so movableprinting press looks like this unlikethe wood block printing machine or thewood block printingit is more convenient and efficient ituses movable components to reproduceinformationon a medium papernumber nine in the year of 1755 samwelljohnson published his book and the titleof his book is a dictionary of theenglish language it is one of the mostinfluential book or dictionary in thehistory of english language it consistsmore than 40 000 words and he wrote thisbook or dictionary for over 8 years andit is being used for the clarificationof english words number 10 in the yearof 1802there are twothat is being developedletter a the library of congress it wasestablished in the united states and itis considered as the um largest orbiggest library in the worldit has 200 million resources per yearand there is this one place that isdesignated only for low making and it isthe main research arm in the u.sletter b carbon arc lump in the sameyear it was invented it contains twocarbon rodsthat when it is pressed together itproduceselectric arc and it is also used forprojectionand assimilation of informations in thelibrary number 11 in the year of 1824research on persistence of vision or povwas published so pov is a concept of howour brain sees an individualas a sequence ofmotion or an individual images as asequence of motion number 12 in the yearof 1830s the first design of digitalcomputer was madecharles babbage was the one who inventedcomputer and he called this asanalytical enginenext let us know who is augusta ladybyron augusta lady byronwas commissioned to translate notes intoenglish and then augmented it and shewas the one who made the first evercomputer program and she was assisted bybob age telegraphtelegraph was invented by samwell mersit transmits electric signals over thewire laid between stationsnext morse code is also invented orbeing publishedor being developed in the year of 1830sso morse code is a set of codes ordots or dashes to each letter of englishalphabet it is a simple transmission ofa complex message across the telegraphlines so it is being used in a world warone as theas a communication now let us welcome mrnorman de leon for the continuation ofthe timeline ofinformation age for reporting the sum oftimeline abuse information speech i amnorman de leon and i will be thereporter of the remainingreports for years in the timeline ofinformation stage for the year 1939 thisyear mr franklin d roosevelt opened thenew york world fair and also this yearbegan the regularu.s television broadcastingit's seen byestimated 1000 viewers now for 1940s thebeginning of information science as adisciplineinformation science disciplinethat deals with the processes andstoring and transferring information nowfor the year 1945vanibar bash pursued the invention ofthe hypertext memexmemex is a device in which individualswould compress and store all their booksrecords and communicationit influenced the development of earlyhyper attack system eventually leadingto the creation of the world wide weband personal knowledge based softwarenow in the year 1946 enyak or theelectric or electronic numericalintegrator and computer was developedenya pressed electric general purposecomputer and built during the world wartwo by the us in the year 1948 the fieldof information yuri happensit invention of the compact days thevisibility of mobile phones developmentof the internet the study of linguisticsand many more in 1948 apple macintoshcomputer was introduced the macintoshwas the first computerto come with the graphical userinterface and a mouse pointing devicesnow in the mid1980s artificialintelligence developed as the separatediscipline from information sciencein 1987 hyper card was developed by billatkinsonapple computer introduced by hyper cardto the public now for the last year 1991world library incorporated produce afully searchable cdrom containing 450classical words of literature andhistoric documentsand that's it for the information stageforin this video i will going todiscuss the last part of our report inchapter 7. so the impact of informationis the information age is now about usin the world today technology is usedall around usthrough the use of computers cell phonespagerscalculatorsvideo gameconsoles and many other technologicaladvanced productscommunity communication has changeddramatically sothe information age isa life changing inpeople's life so it has a positiveeffects draw relax to get aneasy way ofliving soif there is a positive aspectit has also manynegative aspects so such as how internetis unregulated also therethere's a very large legal issuesover our privacies like social mediasinternet facebook'sour leaves have changed greatly becauseof technology the internet has opened upa whole new world of information thateveryone can access and utilize sointernet not only provides informationbut also made now forms of communicationsowe can correspond with people acrossglobetrue webcams instantly messaging emailthis is a reason whyglobalization is becoming reality so notonly has communication grow through theinternet but also throughnewer cell phones technologies andin an increasing number ofcases cell phones and replaced replacinglandlineBiodiversity and the healthy societyBiodiversity is essential for the processes that support all life on Earth, including humans. Without a wide range of animals, plants and microorganisms, we cannot have the healthy ecosystems that we rely on to provide us with the air we breathe and the food we eat. And people also value nature of itself.Some aspects of biodiversity are instinctively widely valued by people but the more we study biodiversity the more we see that all of it is important – even bugs and bacteria that we can’t see or may not like the look of. There are lots of ways that humans depend upon biodiversity and it is vital for us to conserve it. Pollinators such as birds, bees and other insects are estimated to be responsible for a third of the world’s crop production. Without pollinators we would not have apples, cherries, blueberries, almonds and many other foods we eat. Agriculture is also reliant upon invertebrates – they help to maintain the health of the soil crops grow in. Soil is teeming with microbes that are vital for liberating nutrients that plants need to grow, which are then also passed to us when we eat them. Life from the oceans provides the main source of animal protein for many people.Trees, bushes and wetlands and wild grasslands naturally slow down water and help soil to absorb rainfall. When they are removed it can increase flooding. Trees and other plants clean the air we breathe and help us tackle the global challenge of climate change by absorbing carbon dioxide. Coral reefs and mangrove forests act as natural defences protecting coastlines from waves and storms. Many of our medicines, along with other complex chemicals that we use in our daily lives such as latex and rubber, also originate from plants. Spending time in nature is increasingly understood to lead to improvements in people’s physical and mental health. Simply having green spaces and trees in cities has been shown to decrease hospital admissions, reduce stress and lower blood pressure.How does biodiversity maintain a healthy society?Biodiversity supports human and societal needs, including food and nutrition security, energy, development of medicines and pharmaceuticals and freshwater, which together underpin good health. It also supports economic opportunities, and leisure activities that contribute to overall wellbeing.How does biodiversity contribute to society?Diversity is important in today's world because it helps us learn from each other and understand that everyone is unique and special in their own way. Just like how each person has their own interests, hobbies, and talents, people also have different backgrounds, cultures, and experiencesDiversity is important in today’s world because it helps us learn from each other and understand that everyone is unique and special in their own way.Just like how each person has their own interests, hobbies, and talents, people also have different backgrounds, cultures, and experiences. When we have diversity, we get to learn about and appreciate these differences, and we can also learn from each other.For example, if you have a friend who is from a different country, you might get to learn about their language, food, and traditions, which can be really interesting! Or if you have a classmate who has a different skin color than you, you can learn about their experiences and how they see the world, which can help you see things from a different perspective.Having diversity also helps us to be more accepting and inclusive of others, and to treat everyone with kindness and respect, no matter what they look like or where they come from. This is important because it helps create a better and more peaceful world where everyone can feel happy and included.Diversity can bring many benefits to society, the workplace, and communities. Example of the benefits are from :Higher productivityHigher creativityHigher society satisfactionReduce discriminationsMore economical powerWhy is Diversity Important in the Workplace?Diversity is important for several reasons, both in society and in various contexts such as the workplace, education, and communities. Here are some key reasons why diversity is important:Enhances creativity and innovation: A diverse group of people can bring together a wide range of perspectives, ideas, and experiences, which can lead to more creative and innovative solutions to problems or challenges.Better decisionmaking: Diverse teams are more likely to consider multiple viewpoints and approaches, which can lead to better decisionmaking and improved outcomes.Encourages learning and personal growth: Interacting with people from diverse backgrounds can help individuals expand their knowledge and understanding of different cultures, values, and experiences, promoting personal growth and empathy.Improved performance: Research has shown that diverse teams tend to outperform homogeneous groups, as they can draw upon a broader range of skills, experiences, and perspectives.Fosters inclusivity and social cohesion: Encouraging diversity and promoting an inclusive environment can help reduce discrimination and foster a sense of belonging for all members of society.Enhances adaptability and resilience: Diverse groups can be more adaptable and resilient in the face of change, as they are more likely to have a range of skills and experiences that can help them respond to new challenges and opportunities.Reflects and serves the needs of diverse populations: In a diverse society, organizations and institutions need to be able to understand and meet the needs of different groups. A diverse workforce or community is better equipped to do so, ensuring that products, services, and policies are more relevant and accessible to all.Economic benefits: Diversity can contribute to economic growth by increasing the talent pool, fostering innovation, and promoting better decisionmaking within organizations.Social justice and equity: Promoting diversity is an essential part of working towards a more just and equitable society, where all individuals have equal opportunities and are not held back by discrimination or prejudice.Overall, diversity is important because it can lead to better outcomes in various aspects of life, fostering creativity, innovation, empathy, and social cohesion. It also helps create a more just and inclusive society, where everyone has an opportunity to succeed. More reasons below:Increase Marketshare in minority marketsImprove Employee EngagementImprove ProfitEnhance ReputationIncrease ProductivityIncrease Customer SatisfactionsImprove Diversity of Thinking and creativityReduce Organization Risks to complianceLead in minority marketsReduce and Avoid Employee TurnoverImprove and Drive InnovationReduce Hiring Time and make recruitment easierImprove diversity in societyBIODIVERSITY AND THE HEALTHY SOCIETYIntroductionThis module entitled Biodiversity and the Healthy Society discusses the interrelatedness of society, the environment, and health.From the early times, when ancient philosophers of nature tried to explain all things as coming from the elements of water, fire, air, or earth, science sought for the common characteristic, a unifying element, in all of nature's phenomena. There was a growing awareness of how all living things are related to each other, an idea called biodiversity. This recognition started when naturalists began to classify organisms in the natural world using taxonomy, a system devised by Swedish scientist Carl Linnaeus. Still used in the biological sciences today, taxonomy is the hierarchical system of classifying and naming organisms. However, with a limited number of resources, how do the many living organisms of a diverse region survive? The answer lies in the way the available energy supply in the world is shared among the different species through the various ecological relationships. The energy needed to live is shared among the elements of theliving world or passed on from one to another.I. ObjectivesAt the end of this module, students should be able to:1. Determine the interrelatedness of society, environment, and health;2. Create a diagram that would show the relatedness of species in forming up a diverse and healthy society without compromising one another;3. Identify everyday tasks and evaluate whether they contribute to the wellness and health of biodiversity and society or not.4. Appreciate the value of conserving biodiversity.II.LecturesThe United Nations(UN) declared 2010 to be the International Year of Biodiversity, the International Year for the Rapprochement of Cultures, and the International Year of Youth.Biological diversity, also known as biodiversity, is the term given to the variety of life on earth and the natural patterns it forms. This diversity is often understood in terms of the variety of plants, animals, and microorganisms. About 1.75 million species are identified,mostly small creatures such as insects. Some scientists believe that there are about 13 millionspecies, though estimates range from three to 100 million.The loss of biodiversity threatens food supplies, opportunities for recreation and tourism, and sources of wood, medicines, and energy. It also interferes with essential ecological functions. On December 20, 2006, the UN General Assembly declared 2010 as the International Year of Biodiversity. It designated the secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity as the event's focal point. The assembly also invited the secretariat to work with other UN bodies, environmental agreements, and organizations to bring greater international attention to the continued loss of biodiversity.The International Year of Biodiversity focuses on boosting awareness of biodiversity's importance by promoting actions to foster biodiversity worldwide. Various partners have committed to actively participating in or organizing activities and projects for the yearlong event. (Source:Thorsen, S 2010)UN International Year of Biodiversity. Time and date AS Retrieved from https://www.timeanddate.com/year/2010 biodiversity.html)BIODIVERSITY and ECOSYSTEM Is defined as the vast variety of life forms in the entire earth. It encompasses all kinds of life forms, from singlecelled organisms to the largest multicelled organisms. Its definition is in the structural and functional perspective and not as an individual. Biodiversity is the source of the essential goods and ecological services that constitute the source of life for all and it has direct consumptive value in food, agriculture, medicine, and industry. (Villaggio Globale,2009) Understanding biodiversity within the concept of ecosystem needs a thorough study on the relationship of the biotic, the living organisms, and the abiotic, the nonliving organisms. An interdisciplinary approach is needed to study the ecosystem. Biodiversity plays a major role in this natural dynamic. Therefore, we, as human inhabitants of the ecosystem, must preserve and conserve the biodiversity of all creatures. In simple terms, indeed, people will always depend on biodiversity on the wholeness of our being and in our everyday lives. Somehow, there are ways and processes in the ecosystem that are not apparent nor appreciated by us human beings. Think about the need to drink clean and fresh water, the need to eat healthy vegetables and food, or the need for man to transport which makes him rely on fuel. All of these are human needs that are answered and provided by our ecosystem. Thus, if we fail to keep the process of taking care of the ecosystem, it is we who are putting our lives at risk. A significant decline in biodiversity has a direct human impact when the ecosystem in its insufficiency can no longer provide the physical as well as the social need of human beings. Indirectly, changes in the ecosystem affect livelihood, income, and on occasion, may even cause political conflict. (WHO,n.d.)TYPES OF BIODIVERSITY1. Species Diversity Different types of species in a community The extent of species diversity in different areas is referred to as species richness, which is dependent on the varied environmental conditions Example:species diversity besides large bodies of water would be richer as compared to are far from bodies of water2. Ecosystem Diversity The different types of ecosystems, such as terrestrial or aquatic, natural or artificial, are sustained due to their strategic geographical locations on earth. Example: forests, grasslands, mangroves, freshwater, marine3. Genetic Diversity It is to develop specific characteristics that permit it to adjust to new environmental pressures, such as climate change or disease. Example:human diversity is observed even in closely related individuals due to genetic differencesMegabiodiverse Countries Refers to top biodiversityrich countries, including the Philippines The concept is used to highlight awareness of conservation issues around the world To quality as a megadiverse country, it must have a high level of endemism (Endemism is the state of a species being native to a single defined geographic location, such as an island, state, nation, country, or other defined zone) and species diversity, as well as have marine ecosystem along its border. THE INTERACTION OF THE THREE TYPES OF BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY The three concentric circles show the interplay of the ecosystem, species, and genetic diversity. The core, genetic diversity, involves the differences in the genetic makeup of the various species that survive in the different ecosystems found in the biosphere.Conversely, the ecosystem dictates the types of species that are fit to survive in them; thus, their genetic makeup allows them to do so.DISTRIBUTION OF BIODIVERSITY Climate Biodiversity affects climate at local, regional, and global levels, consequently, modifications in land use and land cover that affect biodiversity can affect climate.Altitude Low altitudes are more diverse than higher altitudes.Soils Organisms living in soil and the mineral and nutrient components act together to produce high diversity and complexity, feeding back to biodiversity richness through habitat and nutrient provision.Presence of Other Species Organisms interact with other organisms in an ecosystem which is known as ecological interaction.Biodiversity Hotspots A region with a high amount of biodiversity that undergoes habitat damage by anthropological activity is called a biodiversity hotspot In other words, a hotspot is rare and cannot be replaced. A hotspot must also have 30% or less of its original natural vegetation. Hence, it has to be endangered. 36 areas qualify as hotspots. They embody just 2.4% of Earth's land surface, but they sustain more than half of the world's plant species as endemics and nearly 43% of birds, mammals, reptiles, and amphibians as endemics. Conservation International species 36 biodiversity hotspots around the world. All are severely threatened by habitat loss and degradation, causing their conservation critical to protecting nature for the advantage of all life on earth.CHANGES IN BIODIVERSITY Alteration in any system could bring varied effects. A change in biodiversity could have erratic effects not only on wildlife or marine life but also on human beings. We can infer that when our ecosystem is not well taken care of, biodiversity encounters changes that may impact human health on such different levels.THREATS TO BIODIVERSITY Major threats identified by United Nations Environment Programme (WHO, n.d.) Habitat loss and destruction Alteration in ecosystem composition. Overexploitation Pollution and contamination Global changeCONSEQUENCES OF BIODIVERSITY LOSS Even with the improvement of technology and science at present, we still have a lot to learn about biodiversity, more so about the consequences of biodiversity loss from Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace. The particular species making up an ecosystem determine its productivity, affect nutrient cycles and soil contents, and influence environmental conditions such aswater cycles, weather patterns, climate, and other nonbiotic aspects. The loss of biodiversity has many consequences that we understand and many that we do not. As stated by Tilman, “The Earth will retain its most striking feature, its biodiversity, only if humans have the patience to do so. This will occur, it seems, only if we realize the extent to which we use biodiversity (Rainforest Conservation Fund,2017)" NUTRITIONAL IMPACT OF BIODIVERSITY  According to the World Health Organization, biodiversity is a vital element of a human being's nutrition because it influences food production. Biodiversity is a major factor that contributes to sustainable food production for human beings. A society or a population must have access to a sufficient variety of nutritious food as it is a determinant of their health as human beings. Nutrition and biodiversity are linked at many levels: the ecosystem, with food production as an ecosystem service. The nutritional composition between foods and among varieties/cultivars/breeds of the same food can differ dramatically, affecting micronutrient availability in the diet. Intensified and enhanced food production through irrigation, use of fertilizer, plantprotection (pesticides), or the introduction of crop varieties and cropping patterns affect biodiversity and thus impact global nutritional status and human health.HEALTH, BIOLOGY, AND BIODIVERSITY  Almost all living organisms are dependent on their environment to live and reproduce. Basic needs of living organisms such as air, water, food, and habitat are provided by their environment. The evolution of human beings was due to improved access to these basic needs. Advances in agriculture, sanitation, water treatment, and hygiene have had a far greater impact on human health than on medical Environmental hazards increase the risk of cancer, heart disease, asthma, and many other illnesses. These hazards can be physical, such as pollution, toxic chemicals, and food contaminants, or they can be social, such as dangerous work, poor housing conditions, urban sprawl, and poverty. Unsafe drinking water and poor sanitation and hygiene can lead to infectious diseases, such as diarrhea, cholera, etc. The interrelation between human health and biological diversity is considerable and complex. With the current biodiversity loss at unprecedented rates, the delicate balance between human health and biological diversity is at risk.ENVIRONMENTRELATED ILLNESS  Some human illnesses that are found to be related to its environment include Parkinson's disease, heart disease, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, diabetes, obesity, occupational injuries, dysentery, arthritis, malaria, and depression. According to experts, climate change could also have a serious impact on humanhealth and could deteriorate the farming system, and reduce nutrients in some foods. Relationships between human health and the environment raise many ethical, social, and legal dilemmas by forcing people to choose among competing values.Many of the issues at the intersection of health and the environment have to do with managing benefits and risks. For example, pesticides play an important role in increasing crop yields, but they can also pose hazards to human health and the environment. Alternatives to pesticides could significantly reduce agricultural productivity, leading to food shortages and increased food prices which would, in turn, increase starvation in some parts of the world. When drafting and implementing environmental health regulations, it is important to consider vulnerable subpopulations. A vulnerable subpopulation is a group with increased susceptibility to the adverseeffects of an environmental risk factor, due to their age, genetics, health status, or some other condition.  If an environmental regulation is designed to protect average members of the population, it may fail to adequately protect vulnerable subpopulations. However, almost everyone in the population has an aboveaverage susceptibility to at leastone environmental risk factor. Various public health strategies put the rights of individuals against the good of society, such as mandatory treatment, vaccination, or diagnostic testing; isolationand quarantine: and disease surveillance. Human rights issues also come up with research on environmental health that evolves human subjects. For research to be ethical, human subjects must give consent, and great care must be taken to ensure that they understand that they can optout of the research project. Since the late 1990s, some pesticide companies have tested their products on human subjects to gather data, to submit to the government for regulatory purposes. Some commentators charge that these experiments are unethical because they place people at unacceptably high risk without a clear benefit to society. Others have argued that the experiments if properly designed and implemented, could produce important benefits to society by providing useful knowledge about the effects of pesticides that can lead to strong regulations.BIODIVERSITY CONVERSATION1. Biodiversity inventories2. Conserving biodiversity in protected habitats3. Restoration of biodiversity4. Imparting environmental education5. Enacting, strengthening, and enforcing environmental legislation6. Reviewing the agriculture practice7. Controlling urbanization 8. Conservation through biotechnology9. Population ControlBiodiversity and ecosystem Is defined as the vast variety of lifeforms in the entire earth. Itencompasses all kinds of life forms,from the singlecelled organisms tothe largest multicelled organisms.Its definition is in the structural andfunctional perspective and not asindividual.Biodiversity is the source of theessential goods and ecologicalservices that constitute the sourceof life for all and it has directconsumptive value in food,agriculture, medicine, and inindustry. Understanding biodiversity withinthe concept of ecosystem needs athrough study on the relationship ofthe biotic, the living organisms andthe abiotic, the nonliving organisms. Interdisciplinary approach isneeded to study the ecosystem. Biodiversity Plays a major role in thisnatural dynamic. Therefore, we, as humaninhabitants of the ecosystem,must preserve and conserve thebiodiversity of all creatures. In simple terms, it is true thatpeople will always depend onbiodiversity on the wholeness ofour being and in our everydaylives. Somehow, there are ways and processesin the ecosystem that are not apparentnor appreciated by us, human beings.Think about the need to drink clean andfresh water, the need to eat healthyvegetables and food, or the need of manto transport which makes him rely onfuel. All of these are human needs that areanswered and provided by our Thus, if we fail to keep the process of takingcare of the ecosystem, it is us who areactually putting our lives at risk. Significant decline in biodiversity hasdirect human impact when ecosystem in itsinsufficiency can no longer provide thephysical as well as social need of humanbeings. Indirectly, changes in the ecosystem affectlivelihood, income, and on occasion, mayeven cause olitical conflict.Changes inhiediYiFafsIWm could bring variedeffects. A change in biodiversity could have erraticeffects not only in wildlife or marine life butalso in human beings. We can clearly infer that when ourecosystem is not well taken care of,biodiversity encounters changes that mayimpact human health on such different levelsThreats toFaf9tqrieYt?iKälitYd by United Nations'Environment Programme Habitat loss and destruction Alteration in ecosystem composition.OverexploitationPollution and contamination Global climate changeConsequences of BiodiversityLoss Even with the improvement of technology andscience at present, we still have a lot to learnabout biodiversity, more so about theconsequences of biodiversity loss. However, thebasic concept about biodiversity loss was fromCharles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace. The particular species making up an ecosystemdetermine its productivity, affect nutrient cyclesand soil contents, and influence environmentalconditions such as water, cycles, weatherpatterns, climate and other nonbiotic aspects. The loss of biodiversity has manyconsequences that we understand andmany that we do not.As stated by Tilman, "The Earth will retainits most striking feature, its biodiversity,only if humans have the prescience to doso. This will occur, it seems, only if werealize the extent to which we usebiodiversity Nutritional Impact ofBiodiversity According to the World Health Organization,biodiversity is a vital element of a humanbeing's nutrition because of its influence tofood production. Biodiversity is a major factor that contributes tosustainable food production for human beings. A society or a population must have access toasufficient variety of nutritious food as it is adeterminant of their health as human beings. Nutrition and biodiversity are linked at manylevels; the ecosystem, with food production asan ecosystem service. Nutritional composition between foods andamong varieties/cultivarslbreeds of the samefood can differ dramatically, affectingmicronutrient availability in the diet. Intensified and enhanced food productionthrough irrigation, use of fertilizer, plantprotection because seventy to eighty percent of thespeciesall over the world can be found in thephilippinesanonymity hindu biological heart supportand back in the summer of filipinas wesee biological hearts by thisside in the globe that extinctionthat the level of extinction isvery massiveso for the second video what arethe rules of individual speciesmentioned in the video in terms ofmaintaininghealthy biodiversity so there weredifferent speciesthat were mentioned in the video so whatis the the essence of the species so wecan seethe interrelatedness of one species toanotherfrom the producer from the consumersconsumer that disperse the seeds ofthe producers and also we have thecomposersso for the roles of that those are therules and for the species you may findout them by watching the videowhat are the advantages of having highgenetic diversity inin or withinand between species level so the answeristhe more varied the genes are the moresurviving it will become so for exampleif the sets of genes in an organismis highly different from one anotherthe greater the variation the lesspro or the lesser they're proneto being infected by any diseaseor any diseasecausing agentfor example in bacteriain when we are infected by aspecific set of bacteriawe are only required to take most of thetime you are only required to takeone type of antibioticbecause bacteria they just multiplyby genetic duplication unlikeother organisms they multiply bygenetically confident soilso since genetic duplicationyou just duplicate the parent cellinto many daughter cellsso you were expecting that since it'sduplication the copy of the gene of theparentis the same with a copy of the gene ofthe daughter cells or the offspringso you work so since you are justduplicate duplicate copyone antibiotic can alreadycan already kill thosebacteria so what the lesserthe variant the less surviving itbecomesnext why recall described as install orreport species in this videobecause coral serves asthe bleeding of breeding groundor habitat of lutheranfishes malus and marine art reportsokaynext base also in the video it is basedon the module it is described as asource of essential goodswhether direct or indirect will seetheirconsumption whatever we harvestfrom the biodiversity we consume thateventuallywhen you say uh in direct weconvert products out of the rawmaterials that we get frombiodiversity and ecological servicesthat constitute thesource of life for all and it has directconsumptive value in foodagriculture medicine and industry soexample of ecological services areecotourism national parktheme park that is provided byecosystem or biodiversitynow based on this diagram these are thesources of these are our naturalresourcesland water soil and airand the benefits that we get from themis from economywellbeing food and water food water andmaterialsraw materials specifically public healthand these are the drivers of salesthe policy that we implement the climatechangethe pollution and the land usebecause we could breakmost agricultural land intocommercial land so that we can so thatwe canprovide more shelter or habitat forincreasing populationso based on the videos that we havewatched from several moduleswe clearly see that overpopulationreally affect the environmentso these are the nutritional impact ofbiodiversityfirst first we get healthy local dietswith adequateaverage level of nutrients intakenecessitates maintenance of high byreverselevel we can also get intensified andenhancefood production through irrigationuse of fertilizer plant protections orintroduction of craft varieties andcropping pattern effects by the bruce eand does global impacti does the impact global nutritionalstatus and healthand human health so here we harvestdifferentfruits and vegetablesand other products and out of that wealso invent different alternativemagazineby identifying the active componentor active biomolecules that we canextractfrom those biodiversity productsexample these fruitsthese leaves the gingerand other productsnow we since we are facingproblems in terms of overpopulation wealsoexperiencing lots of species by theuniversityso every minute every 20 minutes3 500 human livesand it is it is equated to oneor more species lossso imagine we experienced 27 000speeches lost a yearand every 60 minutes to240 acres were destroyedwhy because our needs forpapers paper towels tissue paperand any products that we need that's whywe cut several treesthus 75 of genetic diversities inagriculture and cropshave been lost seventy percent of theworld's known species fees extension ofthe globaltemperature rises by more than 3.5degrees celsiusanother statistics that destroysare the following firstone out of four amphibians lostbirds conifersmammals are threatened byextinctionthe main reason of course habitatdestructionwe destroy their natural habitat for thesake ofsupplying our needs such asthe trees that we need the space that weneedbecause we need we need space forhabitat shelter of human that is why itis said that the major causeis human puppy disorder which is doublein numbers since 19627.4 billionand these are the threats to buydiversity asmentioned before we have habitat lossand destructioni'll tradition in ecosystem this oneis associated with thisand this onethe the way we alter the ecosystemit is also a product of habit lawsbecause we destroy their ecosystem whathappened iswe alter the type ofecosystem does thethat we delete them that we live theremight change so for examplefrom the city trees it becomesan empty soilSciencetechnology and society which isbiodiversity and a healthy societyso for today's lesson we will attempt toexplain the role of biodiversityto human survivaldiscuss of the role that science andtechnology plays in the preservationand or destruction of biodiversity andalso suggests practical ways to preservebiodiversity in one's local communityso first how do we define biodiversityat the onset biodiversity isor consists of two wordsthe greek word bio which means life anddiversity which means for varietysoliterallyliterally speaking biodiversity meanslife diversity so in a more technicalaspect biodiversity refers to the vastvariety of life forms earthfrom single celled or unicellular to thelargest or multicelled organismsthese species of life have distinctcharacteristics and functions whichcontribute to maintaining the harmonyand balance in nature or what we callequilibrium or homeostasisso this harmony that existsin the biodiversity of the earthcan be either upheld or disrupted andthe impact of these actionsmay cause either harm or benefit to allforms of life so if we are helpinguphold the integrity of our biodiversitywe are giving benefit to all forms oflife do the opposite disrupt it and wewill be giving harmin this lesson the impact of humanactivity on biodiversity will beexplored and in addition the role ofscience and technology to thepreservation or degradation ofbiodiversity will also be consideredso let usunderstand this topic deeper and furtherso according to the national geographicsociety it's like encyclopedic entrythat was published in august 23 2019biodiversity is a term that is used todescribe the enormous variety of lifeand earthso this is similar to the definitionthat i have given a while agoit can be used more specifically torefer to all the species in one regionor ecosystem souhthere are different ecosystems existingin the earth so you have marineterrestrial ecosystemssomething like thatbiodiversity refers to every livingthing including plants bacteria animalsand of course us humansscientists have estimated that there arearound 8.7 million species of plants andanimals in existence and take note thisis just estimatedwhy because there are stillit means that there are still millionsof other organisms remain a completemystery just this year alone in here inmarsscientists have discovered additionalspecies likethe newly discovered fish and themaldivesthe world a wildlifefoundation also noted thatuh reported that in 2020aroundmore than 200 species of plants andanimals were discovered in the mekongregion the mekong region spans thecountries of chinalaos cambodiathailand vietnamso you can just imagine the vast numberofuh speciesthat have not yet been discovered andonly 1.2 of theseestimated 8.7 species have beenidentified and described or let's saydocumented so far which accounts formostly insectsscientists are interested in how muchbiodiversity there is in a global scalegiven that there is still so muchbiodiversity to discoverthey also study how much species or howmany species exist in single ecosystemssuch as forest grassland tundra or lakeecosystems that host the mostbiodiversity tend to have idealenvironmental conditions for plantgrowth like the warm and wet climate oftropical regions it simply means thatspecies have different survivalrequirements and a particular species ofplant or animal may not necessarilysurvive or adapt toan environment except an environmentthat that is suitable for their survivalecosystems can also contain species thatare too small to see with a naked eyeand that includes virusesgerms or microbesareas with highextremely high levels of biodiversityare called hot spots so it's not justhot spots are not only used for you knowinternet connectionit can also refer to placesand ecosystems in which biodiversitylevels or there are abig number of life living thereendemic speciesare found in these hot spots and when wesay endemic speciesthese are species that are only found inone particular locationokay so meaningthere are species that can really onlybe found existing there and they cannotbe found anywhere so it's it's uh thesespecies are unique to a particular areaor regionmany species provide important benefitsto humans including food clothing andmedicine so it's just these are in anutshell these are justsome or a few of the benefits thatbiodiversity provides to us howevermuch of our biodiversity is in jeopardybecause of human consumption and otheractivitiesthat disturb and even destroy ecosystemsand some of these activitiesor outcome of these activities includepollutionclimate change and population growththese are all threats to ourbiodiversitythese have caused an unprecedented risein the rate of species extinctionand some scientists estimate that halfof all the species now living on earthwill be wiped out in a centuryconservation efforts are thereforenecessary in order to preserve ourbiodiversity and protect endangeredspecies and their habitats which in turnwill also benefit us because this iswhere we get our resourcesagain this is uh this information comesfrom the national geographic societypublished on august 23 2019so when we talk ofuhbiodiversity in how we account for thespecies that are living on earthscientists use this three measures so wehave ecological biodiversityspecies biodiversity and geneticbiodiversity sohow do we differentiate these threeso you just try to remember that when wespeak of ecological biodiversity the keyword is this is habitat basedecological biodiversity simply refers tothe variations in the plant and animalspecies that are living together andconnected by food chains and food websthese are simply umspecies that are living in a particulararea region or ecosystem so it's likesaying thatthere are desert plants or animals rainforest plants or animals and species areliving on mangroves it's not the same soit's habitat basedso that's ecologicalbiodiversitywhen we speak or when we say speciesbiodiversity it is said here that it isbiodiversity at the most basic level soyou refer to thevariety of the different types ofspecies found in a particular area itincludes all the species ranging fromplants to animals to differentmicroorganisms sohow do you differentiate speciesbiodiversity to ecological bio diversitysimpleecological biodiversity is habitat basedspecies biodiversity is number basedso there are two ways by which todetermine or quantify species thatbiodiversityuh species richness and speciesabundance so when we say richness it'sthe totality of the different speciesliving in an area so for example in aparticular ecosystemif you're going to account or count oneby one or quantify how many speciesliving in there for example 100so that'sspecies richnessspecies abundance is you now categorizeuh the species that are living there soout of the 100 how many are plantspecies how many are animal species andthen for plant species you're going toclassify further if those are herbs orthose are like mushrooms orstuff like thatandfor animal species where uh whatparticular class or kingdom or phyla dothey belong so that's how you quantifyspecies biodiversitywhen we say genetic biodiversity itrefers to the genetic variations amongthe genetic resources and constitutionof the organisms so it simply means youare going to look now at the geneticdifferencesin species so for example dogs let's sayin a communityof 100 households imagine if there areif each household has a dogso we cannot say that all dogs there inall those 100 houses all belong to thesame breed soum there might be any occasions in whichyes there are 100 dogs but how manybreeds are we talking about so there'sgeneticum uhdifferencesthat accounts for the differences ofthose dogsnowum i've been talking for the past fewminutesuh some initial information aboutbiodiversity what it is and what it cando but how important is thisnow if you would like to give yourthoughts to this question i would likeyou toumwriteyour answer in the comment section and iwould love to hear what you thinkabout how important biodiversity isbased on your readings or based on whatyou have previously learned so howimportant is biodiversitythese are just some of the reasons i'mnotgiving you all the reasons but these areconglomeratedreasonsbiodiversity is important because firstit provides our needsit gives everything that we need tosurvivefoodraw materials fresh water and medicineall come from nature and these all comefrom different sources plants or animalsnature replenishes the fresh water forall agricultural uses in economicactivity so it's very very obviousand then alsobecause we humans like to innovate basedon what we needbased on the needs of the timeswe also use biodiversity as aninspiration to develop or introduceimprovements to the current technologiesthat we developand thisuh practice of imitatingand taking inspiration from nature iscalled biomimicrythe second reason why biodiversity isimportant is because it regulatesnatural processesunder normal conditions nature canactually heal and take care of itself soit has been proven forformany times although it might take timebut nature has the capacity to do thatit is also responsible for regulatingthe air quality climate watererosion waste treatment pollination anddiseasewould you believe that nature has itsown air purifierin the form of treestrees arenature'scarbon trappersthat's why if you want to neutralizethecarbon dioxidein the atmosphere we need a lot of treesand we need a lot of mangroves to dothat thing okaythey are purifiers they are alsonaturalsanitizers if i may use the termnature also moderates extreme weathereventsagain under normal conditions ifnatureis deemed still in its perfect workingconditionhealthy natural systems can help reducethe damagecaused by rising sea levels extremerainfall and the higher incidence offrequent droughts and storms all causedby climate changethe third reason is that biodiversityalso provides psychosocial culturalbenefitsnature has positive effects on ourmental health and also our physicalhealth it's it has been proven there area number of researchesthatrecommendpeople who are undergoing a lot ofmental and even physical stress to takesomenature vacations orumsomenature tripsto reset or rechargenature also provides for recreation andecoterrorism and it has beengoing on for quite some timeumthe manyattractions in the world are not onlymanmade attractions but the most for methis is just my opinion butmany attractions in the world areactually naturalandwe aretakenwith wonder and all with these naturalattractions because of coursethese attractions took a long time toyou know to build it it is nature thatbuild itand research shows that being in naturalareas improves our physical wellbeingand there is growing evidence thatspending time in nature can also helpmaintain and promote psychologicalwellness so if you are under stress ifyou areif you think you're experiencing burnoutbecause of work or schooli i would personally recommend takingnature walksuh go out for a walkuh just make sure you're protectedbecause we're still under a pandemicwear your mask and thenum but if you are in the woods you'reyou're traveling alone you can take offyour mask and then breathe the fresh airthat the trees are producingand then the next one is thatbiodiversity provides support from theground upin order to provide essentials such asfood and water nature has to firstsupport the basis for all life thisincludes enabling healthy soil to takeshape and allowing photosynthesis andplant growth to occurthe soil is responsible for the cyclingof nutrients through the ground on whichthe health of all ecosystems depend onthis is why uh there is what we call anagricultural cycle in which farmers umdeliberately don't plant or don't usethe soil for a number of months in ordertolet the soil recharge and regenerate andrestso that it will be ready for the nextplanting seasonnowwe have talked about or i have talked ordiscussed about the benefits thatbiodiversityhas to offer but of course we have toacknowledge thatat the current momentwe are facing what we call abiodiversity loss and we have been theearth has been suffering that for quitesome time nowwhat are the causes of this loss andwhat impact can it bringwe have to acknowledge that we peopledepend on biodiversity in ways that arenot directly appreciated or obviouslyseen because there are natural processesthat we cannot see with their naked eyejust take a look at photosynthesiswe cannot see it with our naked eye wewe might only be able to see it througha powerfulelectron microscope the process butand we only know it through books but wedon't see the physicaluh the leaves absorbing the sunlighttaking in carbon dioxide we don't seethatthatumquite dramaticuhnaturalphenomena happening that's why for manypeoplethey don't appreciate that unlessthey are taughtvery well and taught deeplywith the significance of thatprocessand one of the things thatbiodiversity has a good effect on is onhuman healthgood health for men requires theavailability of resources that natureofferslike fresh water food and clean air sothese are must if we need to maintain ahealthy body we need all thishuman health depends on a balancedecosystem and its productsbiodiversity loss can have significantimpacts on human health and survivalif the ecosystem can no longer providehuman society with adequate services orproducts then there will be substantialeffects to the human population in manywaysso here what are the what are theimpacts or what are the effectsand how will biodiversity loss impactthatfirst it can makeuh it can have a biological impact bybiological impact i mean to say that itcan have an impact on otherum living species aside from humans soif you're going to take a look at thisillustration this is this illustrationat the topuh simply uh it's a picture ofa simple picture ofa food chainin which also a simplea very simplified photosynthetic processis shown there with the sunwith its rays uhbeaming through the trees in thisecosystem which is a mangrove ecosystemand there areliving organisms there in the form ofwormsuh you have their prawnsyou know you take out oneyou take out the one in this food chainand everything will be you knowit will have a drastic effect it willhave a domino of cascade negativecascading effectlet's say you take out the mangrovesthere so where will the animals begetting their foodbecause the mangroves there are thechief producers of foodand if the main consumers the firstconsumers or first level consumers likethe ampifoxwill beuhwill dwindle in number because theydon't have food that they will getfrom the producersso they won't in turnbe eaten bycreatures orliving things that are bigger than thembecauseonespecies sustains the othersoyou knowuntiluh the food chain is destroyed and oncethe food chain is destroyed the topconsumerwhich which are humans will be affectedthe mosta scarcity of any of the resources inthe ecosystem will cause the depletionof biodiversity which in turn puts theriskuh what's at risk the health andsurvival of the societyand also as a picture below here it umthis shows that there aresome manmade processes thataffectsdrasticallythe naturaluh ecosystems or the naturalbiodiversity like yes aggregatedevelopment of agriculture although weneed thisumthere came uhyou know some negative effects to ouruhnatureand then of course there's fireuhmostly manmadeindustries and then transportation allof these processeshavebyproducts and these byproductsaffect the natural balance of all theelements in natureand therefore alltheeffects of these processes return to menlikethe excessivechemicals that industries spew outare mixed withuhthe airand thenwhen that airis mixed with the clouds and thenthere's this precipitation then therewill be acid rain and acid rate is nothealthysothere will be the first is biologicalimpact of biodiversity loss becauseevery living thing will be affectedso here is a report from the worldwildlife fundentitled living planet report 2018whichdetails aboutwhat uhthe aspectsin which biodiversity loss can have onuhon the ecosystem on natureit is said here that humor studies haveindicated the worldis experiencing the sixth massextinction eventthe top threats to animals in plantspeciesare linked to human activities and overexploitation of wildlife and plantswhich are driven by ever rising demandfor food and energywith the growth of human population inthe in industrialization humanactivities are destroying nature andwiping out animal implant species at anastonishing ratewhich in turn threatens our human lifeand wellbeingsoby the numbers how does biodiversityloss affecthuman or affect beings so you have yourstatistics number one more than onemillion animal and plant species arethreatened with extinctionaround ten percent of insect species arenow threaded with extinction soseeuh in my personal experience i no longersee firefliesuh when i was younger i used to see andget fascinated with those insects now idon't see themokay as a sentimental personumuh it's been a fascinating thing for metoyou knowuhsee this uh unique insects but nowif you see them then appreciate becausetime will come that you will no longersee these insectsthey will just be you knowumspecimens and glass linesin laboratories and in museumson the average 25 species are threatenedwith extinction across terrestrial freshwater in marine vertebrate in vertebrateand plant groups that have been studiedin sufficient detailthe current rate of global speciesextinction is hundreds of times higherthan the average over the last 10million years and their rate sadly isstill accelerating and it's you knowwhen you say accelerating it'saccelerated further because of humanactivity because of the progress youknowthese this is just the sad byproduct ofprogressas we progress we are also destroyingour planet sothat's the sad thing about thatit is also estimated that there is atotal of 5.9 million terrestrial speciesover the worldand more than half a million of thesespecies are living with insufficienthabitat for longterm survival i havementioned earlierthatspecies not all species can live ordwell in the same areaspecies havethis characteristics that make themadaptable to specific or uniquehabitats and nichesso if those habitats are destroyed ordisrupted thenthese species will be forced to move outor migrate butbut that migration is not beneficial tothem because most likely the place wherethey will migrate to is not ideal fortheir survival sotime will come that if they will not beable to adapt to that kind ofenvironmenttheir numbers will dwindle until theyface extinctionthen more than 40 percent of amphibianspeciesalmost 33of reef forming corals and 33 also allmarine mammals are now threatened withextinctionthen uh at least 680vertebrae when you say vertebratethese are species with backbones uhspecies have been driven to extinctionby human actions since the 16th centuryso we have beenfor quite some time now being man hasbeen has been had beenum cruel to these species driving themto extinction um i have learned uh onduring my younger years that a birdcalled a dodois has been extinct soquite sad we haven't seen thatspecies we i only saw that in booksmore than nine percent or around 560 allbreeds that are domesticated ironicallywe just domesticate for food andagricultural use had become extinct by2016. so this is just merely six yearsago with at least 1 000 more breedsthreatenedthreatened with whatmaybe not with extinction but withgenetic variations because many animalsare now beingyou knowmodified genetically sowemost some of the food ironically that weare eating are genetically modifiedorganismsthatuh they they no longer have that kind oforiginal genetic makeupwildlife populations are also decliningat a rate of one percent per yearin global average wildlife populationsdeclined by 60between 1970 and 2014. overall around 40percent of all known animal species arefacing extinction including beetlesflies moths butterflies and beesso those are the biologicalimpacts of biodiversity loss now anotherimpact is environmental in natureloss of biodiversity causes climatechange and vice versa meaning climatechange also causes loss of biodiversityclimate change in turn seriously affectshuman health and activity and all of usare witnesses tothe drastic andterrifying effects ofclimate change in the form of massivestorms that have wiped out citiescost property and life loss and droughtsthat havecost millionsand dollars ofcrop devastationso with regard to climate change whichis an environmental impact ofbiodiversity lawslet us know some factshere fromconservation.org some 1111 out of many facts that we canwe can say that heywe cannot just simply rest on or sleepon these factsnumber one around 416 parts per millionthis is a concentration of carbondioxide in our atmosphererecorded in july 2021 as being thehighest in human historyso meaning to say our atmosphere isgettingheavier with carbon dioxide andthe earth has no sufficient vegetationand forest cover to neutralize thiscarbon dioxideso it's very sad and it's alsoquite dangerous because a high level ofconcentration of carbon dioxide is alsonot healthy especially for people livingin urban areasnumber two2020 was a sculpturethere was tremendous heat this is theyear of the pandemic butandmost of the countries have been inlockdown but ironically this was a veryhot yearanalysis by the national oceanographicand atmospheric administration or noaashows that the average globaltemperatures in 2020were1.76 degrees fahrenheit or almost 1degree centigrade warmer than the 20thcentury average making it the secondhottest year on record take note secondhottest year on recordin fact the warmest years recorded inearth fell uh fellbetween 1880 to 2020 and that startedfrom 2014.so the earth is getting hotter andhotter every yearso a lot that go back to number onecarbon dioxide is also increasingheatin other greenhouse gases11of emissionsglobal greenhouse gas emissions arecaused by humans due to deforestationcomparable to the emissions from all ofthe passenger vehicles on the planet theburning of forests actuallyreleases trapped carbon increaseand when you release a trapped carbon itis trapped in the atmosphere and it willbeconverted into poisonous gasand this in turn this gas canthinthe already thinningozone layerso that's quite dangerous and we knowthe dominant effectbecause there's a hole already there wasa layeruh it invites more heat and that heat ismelting the icein our ice caps and you know when youmelt the ice when the ice is meltedthere's a rise in sea level the earth isgetting warmer and more storms arecreated year after year sotalk abouteffect after effect after effectnature is an untapped solutionwhytropical forests are actually veryefficient in storing carbon why becauseforests trees need that in order toproduce sugaroxygen and waterbasically for photosynthesis but manypeople are not realizing this insteadthey burn forests to give way toagricultural land when in fact theyshould be leavinguh they should leave all those tropicalforests alone because these are theearth's natural purifiersthey could actually uh they couldprovide at least a third of themitigation action needed to prevent theworst climate change scenarioyetit only receives three percent of allclimate fundingironicwe have natural solutions but it isintactandnatural climate solutions such asplantingmore treesrestoring degraded forests can actuallycreate more jobsthan and it's higher compared tocreating jobs inoil and gas industries that require acertain degree of skillyou can create jobs naturally you'rehelping the environment but againwe are not tapping into a naturalsolutionand becauseof human activityand what i have mentioned about a carbongetting trapped in on earthcreatinguh hot weather or further exacerbatingthe hot weatherum noahagain recorded that in july 21 2021 thisjust last yearuh was the hottest modern recordsolike i've saidwe're getting hotterthe earth is getting harder hotter andhotter every year800 million people or that accounts for11 of the world's populationis currently vulnerable to climatechange impacts such as droughts floodsheat waves extreme weather events andsea level rights i need not talk toomuch of thiswe have seen this in the news and someof you or perhaps many of you have beenvictims ofum the effects of climate change likejust in the philippines we haveexperienced yolanda or styphon hayanone of the strong this perhaps thestrongest or maybe perhaps not perhapsthe strongest typhoon to have hitus umin in many yearsanduhwe knowthatwe can't just give all the details butit's really devastating andheartbreaking to seeso many homes destroyed so many liveslost properties uh wiped awayand yolanda is actuallyor typhoon hayanis an evidence thatthe earth is not the same as it wasbeforecoastal blue carbon ecosystems arecriticalblue carbon ecosystems refer to thecoastal mangroves which store up to 10times as much carbon per hectare astropical forestsso here is another natural solution ofcarbon trappers mangroves but why are wenot seeing most of thesewell we could say thatmangroves are giving way again forprogress for building so manyum structuresand people not realizing the value ofthese and because of mangrove losswe are losing an important buffer fromextreme weather for coastal communitiesand also since they are carbon trappersuh the destruction of these mangrovesaccounts for immenseamounts of carbon dioxide to be releasedinto the atmosphereit's cheaper actually to save nature andconserve our ecosystemseven our natural coral reefsare four times natural naturally cheaperthan building a seawall for coastalprotectionthey are actually effective barriers butfor because of fishing and livelihoodsome or many of these coralcoral reefs are being destroyed and alsouh coral bleaching or the whitening ofcoral reefs is also one of the mainreasons why we are losing this what wecall marine tropical forests or marineforests marine ecosystemsumthere is umsome positive news in this 189 countrieshave already ratified the 2015 parisagreement which refer to theagreement to lessen carbon emissionsand lessen the dependence on coal andfossil fuel use but of course this willtake more than justlegislation but more political will howwilling are we to limit our use of coalhow are we willing to umlessen our carbon footprint so it's notjustgovernments that should be working onthis but also people around the worldhow are we prepareduh for the economic after effects ofcancellingornot supporting coal powered plantsand not supporting umoil establishing all refineries ofcourse this will entailso much discussion butumof course i think in my personal opinionthere will be more positive effects ifthese will be this activities will beput to a stop there is still timethose are theecological impactswhat about the nutritional impactwould you believe thatbiodiversityloss can also impactthe nutrition of course a while ago italked aboutum if we want to havea healthy societyhealthy individuals we have to getthefreshestor the freshest possible products fromour ecosystem and if our ecosystemcannot provide that then we are notbeing provided with proper nutritionmalnutrition according to the worldhealth organizationbiodiversity is a vital element in ahuman being's nutrition because of itsinfluence to food productionit is a major factor that contributes tosustainable food production for humanconsumptionbiodiversity is the reason human beingshave the access to a sufficient varietyof nutritious food as it is adeterminant of their healthsoloss of biodiversity would result todecline in nutritious food options forhuman beings so if you're seeing this umvery pitifulum picture of very disturbing actualpicture oftwo children who are obviouslyundernourished suffering frommalnutrition and when we speak ofmalnutrition we're not talking aboutchildren who are skin and bones we'realso talking about people who aresuffering from obesitythose who are extremely overweightbecause according to the world healthorgan organization malnutrition includesunder nutritionwasting stunting underweightuh peopleum those who are overweight obese andthose who areuh who are suffering from result dietrelatednoncommunicable diseases so eat even ifyou're overweightand you're obese you're still consideredmalnourished because you're not gettingproper nutritionwhy are people why is biodiversity losscontributing toobesity it's very simplesince we are not able tohave access to fresh organic food thatcomes from our ecosystemwhat we rely on aremanmade artificial foodand this artificial food arecalorie dense not nutrition denseand when foods are calorie densethey only contribute sugar and fatand when we eat sugar and fat and we arenot able our body is not able tometabolizethis properlywe have consumed ituh much more than we can burn that thatbecomes fatokay so that'sthe um that's howbiodiversity loss is connected withobesityand thenwe know what obesity can can have adrastic effect on our healthobesity is actually linkedto lifestyle diseases such as heartdiseasediabetes kidney problemsand even cancerokayaround 45 of deaths among children underfive years of age are linked to undernutritionso these mostly occur in low and middleincome countries at the same timein these same countries rates ofchildhood overweight and obesity arerising so there is you know strictprolateral polarityunderweightexcessively underweight and excessivelyoverweight and these are in countriesthat have low and middle incomeum countries and countries that havesuffered greatlyuh loss in their biodiversityand it is said here that thedevelopmental economic social andmedical impacts of the global burden ofmalnutrition are serious and lasting andwe have seen deaths in the news you justread on you so you just get statisticsand you will begripped with shockthatthe numbers are constantly risingyear in and year out many children aredying because of malnutritionso how do we now respond given all thesenegativeimpacts of biodiversity loss and how dowe revertto thatumtime or how do we revert to thatcondition in which we canmake a healthy societyby bringing again a healthy biodiversitywhat steps and actions can we do tolessen the impact of such laws becausewe need to acknowledge thatto have a healthy society we need ahealthy biodiversitypeople or all of us will always dependon buy a healthy biodiversity for thewholeness of our being in our everydaylives we need to respond to the threatsagainstthe uh against nature because if we failto do so then we are putting ourselvesat riskso um before i give you those um someactions that we can take as individualsi would like to introduce you to what icall the front liners in the fight topreserve biodiversity so i'm not goingto specify or read everything thatyou're seeing here you can actually uhresearch these organizations on theirwebsiteand umuh also those who would like to get acopy of this presentation you justcomment on the comment section and iwill be giving you a free copy of thispresentation but of course these uhdescriptions ofthese front liners can actually beconveniently found on the web so we havenature conservancy the world wildlifefund we also have the natural resourcesdefense council or nrdc these are globalassociations or societies by the way uhsierra clubwe also havethe wildlife conservation society oceanawe also have conservation internationalaudubon societyjane goodall institute and the royalsociety for the protection birds or therspbso these are front liners doing the workthe very very hard work of educatingpeople and doing some action in order tomitigate the effects of biodiversitylawsalso at the forefront ofensuring that countries aredoingaction to fight the effects ofbiodiversity laws the united nationscouncil has released in 2015 uh launcheda 2030 agenda for sustainabledevelopment in whichthey havelaid out 17 sustainable developmentgoals that call for action by allcountries to improve practices such ashow a city or society should use forestin ocean resources and how to tacklefood and water scarcity so here arethe sustainable development goals andone of this is climate action so it'svery nice to hear this from the unitednations but of course it's just morethanjust simply umlaying outthe uh the goaluh the question is how each individualcountry is willing to take action intheir ownin their owncountries and then uh regions orlocalities and how citizens of the worldare going to respond to the call of youknow change and umhelping to sustainthese sdgsnow aside from the efforts of globalorganizations how do we peopleon our individual efforts can do as ourshare in preserving and upholding theintegrity of biodiversity how do weprotect our natureforuh for starters i think some of you arealready doing this but some of you mightnot be aware that you're doing thisbut of course there's still a lot to bedoneum individually and then if theseinterval individual actions are puttogetherit's a good thing to think that there'salready collective action that is beingdone in a communityin a society as a whole so these arejust some of the ideas you can alsopitch in your ideas if you have ideas onhow we can protect nature just commentwrite your comment or post your commenton the comment sectionsohow do we do itmaybe after learning something aboutthis lesson you can talk with yourfriends your family or even yourteachers some of the teachers or peoplethat are close to you talk to them abouthow important it is to protect natureand the effects of human activity onnaturedraw their attention to biodiversity andshare what you have learned about whyit's so importantthe relationship our relationship withbiodiversityif you are in schooli think it's a wise move to organize aclub or an organization that will helpthe planet by planting trees or savingenergyand if i may say so i could suggest ifuh if you happen to beuh included oruh you are interested insaving the planet you can actually joinclubs or organizations or communityefforts or endeavors that call for treeplanting for clean and greenbeautification drivethings that will conservenaturethat's a good movealso save energy because most of thecountries are still dependent on coalandfossil fueluh sources to powerouruh industries to power our homesif there are ways by which we can turnthese off appliances when not the newsturn them offin transportationumif if you can bike take a bike or take awalk when you can rather than using acar because you know electric cars areso expensive way expensiveactually if there's a way by which wecan purchase electric carsmaybe we could all purchase that but ofcourse it's it's better that you bike orwalk you get aside from saving theenvironment you're also doing favor foryourself because you know you're burningcalories you're also maintaining goodhealthtalk to your family in school aboutswitching to renewable energy and energyefficient appliances so look at theenergy efficiency rating of appliancesthat you are purchasing and you mightalso considerreverting toumtools that can collect energy like solarpanels you know that that's a very veryum efficient way of collecting and usingenergy that harnesses the power ofradiation from the sunand then think about the food you eat nono to food wastage aside from manypeople are hungry right nowyou don'tyou shouldn'tandyou you shouldn't umbe wasting food because just imaginethe distance and the process it took forthat food to be producedthere's so much carbon footprint thatwas left behind in producing that foodand if you waste that foodyou practically wasteyou practically waste energywe need to conserve energy lost energycannot be you know revertedand reduce the amount of food and waterto waste no to food wastelet's uhbe economicalprobably eat only the food that you canaffordto store in your bodyit will you will also help yourself bynot becoming obese okayand also to remember to eat a balanceddiet andmore to eat naturallylessen your intake of calorie dense foodbut more nutrition dense food becauseit's aside from it's organicagain your lesson you're lessening yourcarbon footprintand also shop smarthow do you shop smart use your owngrocery bags don't have don't useplastic bagsandlessen yourconsumption of grocery bags even groceryuh papers brown bags like that try tolessen it because it's still some ofthose still use umpaper products that are coming fromtrees if it's recycled then there's noproblem but try to lessenum the use of shopping bags and buyingunnecessary shopping packsyou can have probably can even recyclethe bags that you already havewrite a letter to a local politician orbusiness and tell them about anenvironmental issue that you'reconcerned about this might seem quiteambitious but some people have alreadysucceeded in this one of this is betterthan bergactivist a young child activist who iscampaigning to umrevert the effects of climate changeshe's actually a global ambassador nowand she has already talked with the u.nin so many conferences withthat is a concern with climate changemaybe you can uh you can study uh howshe did itokay but she made a protest and she madesure that the protests will be heard andwill reign throughout the worldand probably some of you are doing thisto grow plants that attract beesbutterflies and other pollinatorsyou know planting does not only lessenthe stressbut of course it helps improve thequality of air that we breathe you canalso create backyard wildlife habitatssuch as rotten logs for vetoes or bughotelsand also probably on rotten logs you cangrow mushrooms that you can eat as longas thosemake sure that those mushrooms arereally edibleand then no to single use plastic useless plastic such as straws and rememberto reuse and recycle whenever possibleif uh there is a there are ways by whichyou can usefood containers withoutusingsingleuse plasticplease revert to that it's moreeconomical it's more environmentfriendlyand buy things that last for a long timeand can be repaired or recycled thingssuch as bicycles and clothes can berestored or mendedthis is one thing that many peopleare quite hesitant to do because theyalways think that you know it's umi would rather buy cheaper things okayit's practical really especially if youdon't have the budget butmost often or more often than notum things of expensive valueespecially uh materials or tools thatare more expensive actually last longerand if it lasts longer you will haveuh lesserinstances of buying the same productbecause you can use it and use it for along time meaning you're also againlistening the instances of buyingum for yourself that kind of productwhich lessens the up the chances of youum contributing to more carbon footprintthan eversoif you have if you're going to purchaseitems make sure those are the bestqualityanduh last but not the least enjoy anddiscover the wonders of nature aroundyou you know it it pays a lot toappreciate what we see the beautifulnature that we see becausethere are so many benefitsthata healthy ecosystem can give usand be respectful of your surroundingsand remember to clean up after yourselfyou know um it's it's a very simplething like if you're going to eatsomewherepublic perhaps notpractice clego or clean as you go youdon't justleave your food containers there lyingidleand then having all insectsum crowd orpile up on those food containers put iton the bin and if the there are binsthat uhencourage you to segregate your waste doiti mean it's not hard to be responsibleit's not difficult to put youryour trash in the bits it's notdifficult to do that selfdiscipline andstage is umuh it's easyif we know the benefits but of course ifwe don't know the benefits it's it'sdifficult to do itbut if we know the benefits of whatdiscipline will yield us or will give usthen probably it will be easier tofollowand leave nature as pristine as youfound it likewhen you go to ato a tripuh let's say you're going to go you'regoing to the beach it's all it's summeralreadybe responsible bynot uh you know not leaving your garbagethere making sure that the area youstayed on is cleanyou're notdumping anyany trash there likeit's so saddening right now becausethere are someresorts that i have heardthat uh in the on the beaches or in thefront beachthere are you know floating baby diapersor napkins that are you know so gross toeven think of that but that's realityit's something that isn't it'saside from it's gross it's unhealthyit's it's you knowit's ait's a displeasure to the environment solet's let's all together workfor the benefit of the environmentbecause no matter how small our share iswhenthat individual will turn intocollective effort and that collectiveeffortwill save lives in the endso if you have additional ideas and youwould like to pitch in thoseum you may again post your comments onthe comment section and i would love toread your ideas and if your ideas uhwill also beumi will also i i have this plan ofreading your comments on the nextyoutube video that i i'll be uploadinghere on this channel so keep postingso and i also would love to read yourinsights about this topicso that concludes this topic onbiodiversity and healthy society so The nano worldA nanometer (nm) is a unit of length equivalent to one billionth (109) of a meter. For comparison, a single sheet of paper is approximately 100,000 nm thick and a strand of DNA is 2.5 nm across. By studying and controlling matter at this nanoscale (1100 nm), scientists can alter individual atoms and molecules. These alterations can lead to changes in the physical, chemical, biological, and optical properties of matter. When compared to their larger counterparts, nanoparticles can exhibit more or less strength, flexibility, reactivity, reflectivity, or conductivity.After only 20 years of research and development, the creation of nanotechnologies and nanodevices is occurring at a rapid rate. Nanotechnology is aiding and revolutionizing many different aspects of science and industry, including energy, environmental science, homeland security, transportation, food safety, information technology, and medicine. As with any new technology or field of study, it is important to examine the potential for unintended consequences, especially those related to human and environmental health.the global marketleader for tips forScanning ProbeMicroscopy andAtomic ForceMicroscopy.sphere of influenceof nanotechnologyScanning probe microscopy (SPM) a branch of microscopthat forms images ofsurfaces using aphysical probe thatscans the specimen. founded in 1981, withthe invention of thescanning tunnelingmicroscope, aninstrument for imagingsurfaces at the atomiclevel.Atomic Force Microscopy.is a type of scanningprobe microscopy(SPM), withdemonstrated resolutionon the order of fractionsof a nanometer, morethan 1000 times betterthan the opticaldiffraction limit. Theinformation is gatheredby "feeling" or "touching"the surface with amechanical probe.Origin of Nanoscience in 1959 it was discussed by the renowned physicistRichard Feynman in his talk There's Plenty of Room atthe Bottom, in which he described the possibility ofsynthesis via direct manipulation of atoms. in 1960, Egyptian engineer Mohamed Atalla andKorean engineer Dawon Kahng at Bell Labs fabricatedthe first MOSFET (metaloxidesemiconductor fieldeffect transistor) with a gate oxide thickness of 100nm, along with a gate length of 20 gm. in 1962, Atalla and Kahng fabricated a nanolayerbase metal—semiconductor junction (M—S junction)transistor that used gold (Au) thin films with athickness of 10 nm.Origin of nanotechnology the term "nanotechnology" was first used by NorioTaniguchi in 1974. In 1986, K. Eric Drexler used the term "nanotechnology"in his book Engines of Creation: The Coming Era ofNanotechnology, which proposed the idea of ananoscale "assembler" which would be able to build acopy of itself and of other items of arbitrary complexitywith atomic control. In 1980, the emergence of nanotechnology as a field inoccurred through convergence of Drexler's theoreticaland public work in 1986, Drexler cofounded The Foresight Institute tohelp increase public awareness and understanding ofnanotechnology concepts and implications.Nanoscience and technology branch of science that studies systemsand manipulates matter on atomic,molecular and supramolecularscales/ultrasmall scale (the nanometrescale).Nanotechnology study of what happens whenthings get very, very small  onlya few atoms in size. refers to the science,engineering, and technologyconducted at the nanoscale,which is about 1 to 100nanometers. employs the study andapplication of exceptionally smallthings in materials science,engineering, physics, biologyand chemistry.Nanotechnology is a very diverse field that ishaving bigger and bigger impacts on the world. has applications in medicine, cars, spacecrafts,food, electronics, and materials science just toname a few. refers broadly to a field of applied science andtechnology whose unifying theme is the controlof matter on the molecular level in scalessmaller than 1 micrometer, normally 1 to 100nanometers, and the fabrication of deviceswithin that size range.nanometer a unit of spatial measurement that is 109meter, or one billionth of a meter. commonly used in nanotechnology, thebuilding of extremely small machines.TYPES OF MICROSCOPES USED INNANOSCIENCE ANDNANOTECHNOLOGYElectron microscope a microscope thatuses a beam ofaccelerated electronsas a source ofillumination. In 1930, Germanengineers ErnstRuska and Max Knollbuilt the first electronmicroscope.Atomic Force Microscopea type of high resolutionscanning probemicroscope that has aresolution that you canmeasure in fractions of ananometer.was pioneered in 1986by Nobel Prize WinnerGerd Binnig along withCalvin Quate andChristoph Gerber.Scanning Tunneling Microscope an instrument forimaging surfaces atthe atomic level. its development in1981 earned itsinventors, GerdBinnig and HeinrichRohrer (at IBMZürich), the NobelPrize in Physics in1986.Possible Applications ofNanotechnology in the Philippines:Information and CommunicationTechnologies and semiconductors Health and medicineEnergyFood and agricultureEnvironmentNanotech Roadmap for the PhilippinesInformation and CommunicationTechnologies and semiconductors Health and biomedicalEnergy Agriculture and foodEnvironmentHealth and environmental riskNanometrology Education and public awarenessAdvantages and Disadvantages ofNanotechnologyAdvantages offers thepotential for newand faster kindsof computersmore efficientpower sources: and lifesavingmedicaltreatments.Disadvantages economicdisruption possible threats tosecurity, privacy,health and theenvironment.Nanotechnology and EnvironmentNanotechnology and HealthBenefits improveddetection andremoval ofcontaminants development ofbenign industrialprocesses andmaterialsConcerns High reactivity andtoxicity Pervasive distributionin the environmentNo nanospecific EPAregulationBenefitsimproved medicinecould save lives bymaking diagnosisand treatment farmore effective.Concernsability to cross cellmembranes andtranslocate in the body.No FDA approval neededfor cosmetics andsupplementsNanotechnology and EconomyBenefits better products new jobsConcerns redistribution ofwealth potential costs ofcleanups anf healthcare accessibility to allincome levelsOn 22 November 2018, ten eminent scientists and scientificinstitutions received the UNESCO Medals for contributions tothe development of nanoscience and nanotechnologies duringa ceremony held at UNESCO headquarters, Paris. The medalis awarded each year by the DirectorGeneral of UNESCO toprominent scientists, public figures and organizations thatcontributed to the development of nanoscience andnanotechnologies in the spirit of UNESCO's priorities.USES AND APPLICATIONSOF NANOTECHNOLOGY by UNESCOEnergy storage, productions and conversion.Agricultural productivity enhancement.Water treatment and remediation.Disease diagnosis and screening.Drug delivery systems.Food processing and storage.Air pollution and remediation.Construction.Health monitoringVector and pest detector and control.On the nanometerscaleOver the past few decades, research has beenmoving towards the infinitely small:the nanoworld. One nanometer is one billionthof a meter, a distance which is 50,000 timessmallerthanthethicknessofahair!This researchis bringing us closer to the dimensions of anatom, 0.1 nm. A lot of things occur on this scalein nature: it is the scale where groups of atomscome together to form molecules and proteinsand it is the scale of their interactions. On thisscale we know that matter can be manipulated,atom by atom, to construct it and to improve itschemical, physical or electronic properties.By bringing together the skills of researchers inchemistry,physicsandbiology, severalpromisingnew channels have opened up to science in theworld of materials for electronics and medicine.“By combining the skills of researchers inchemistry, physics and biology, several promisingnew channels are opening up in science.”Theresultscanalreadybeseeninthreeexamples:communication devices, (everyday devicesequipped with a communication interface andembedded software), biochips and miniaturemechanical systems.This new research field is the first to considertechnologicaldevelopments simultaneouslywiththeir repercussions on health, the environmentand society. This approach makes it possible forpotential risks to be anticipated and to developany special regulations that are required as afunction of progress in our understanding andthe ongoing research.Membranes forfuel cells,nanocomponents forelectronics andmolecular screeningare just threeexamples ofapplications linked toeveryday life.Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 wThe nanoworldDesign and production: www.specifique.fr – Cover photo: Images of silicon nanowires obtained by scanning electron microscopy. A. Gonin – P. Stroppa – P. Dumas/Chemical mapping of magnetic nanoparticles. P. BayleGuillemaud/Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld4 w 5CONSTANT PROGRESS IN THE FIELD OF MINIATURIZATIONRUNS HANDINHAND WITH THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEWMICROSCOPES, OPENING THE WAY TO THE NANOSCIENCESAND NANOTECHNOLOGIES.The possibilities offered by miniaturizationwere perceived a long time ago. In 1959, thephysicist Richard Phillips Feynman put forward the hypothesis that man could manipulate individual atoms and use them either tostore information or to create functionalsystems. The idea was there; but not theinstruments capable of verifying this hypothesis.In 1965, Gordon Moore, cofounder of Intel,applied an economic law which dated fromthe end of the 19th century to electronics andestimated that the rate of miniaturization oftransistors integrated onto a single chip wouldfollow a regular curve. In 1974, one chip couldcarry four integrated transistors. Today, thissame chip carries billions, each around 45 nmin size. By 2020, according to the curve of"Moore’s Law", transistors will have reachedthe 10 nm scale!Thanks to this miniaturization, industrialistscan split the working core of processors intoseveral parallel subunits, thus increasing thefunctionality of processors.TOPDOWN AND BOTTOMUPThis aspect of miniaturization is being drivenfrom the topdown. The material is cut, sculptedand engraved using instrumentation designedand developed by man, with the aim of reaching the micrometer, and then the nanometer, scale.In contrast, in the opposite direction, thebottomup approach is making it possible toInfinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld P. Stroppa/ Dive into thenanoworldA world first: In 1999, an experimental MOS transistor wasproduced with a size of 20 nm. "According to Moore's Law, betweennow and the year 2020,the sizeoftransistors should have dropped to10 nm, as opposed to 45 nm today.”build matter by assembling aggregates, atomby atom, and then assembling molecules. Thisis similarto the approach taken by naturewhich,starting from simple molecules, shaped theliving world over the course of 4 billion yearsof evolution.Study of the nanoworld includes: the nanosciences, which investigate thecomposition of matter, its assembly and itsintimate properties on the nanometer scale;Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworldw 7Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld6 w It can only be used to observe the surface ofconductingmaterials.Anelectricpotential, creating a current of electrons, is exerted betweenthe point and the surface. The surface is thenscanned from a height of a few nanometers. Thetip captures any electronswhich are able to crosstoitthanks tothetunneleffectthat strongly varieswith the tipsurface distance. The variations inthis"tunnelingcurrent"arerecordedandprocessedby a computer, delivering an image of the topography of the material, atom by atom (see box ).Its inventors,thescientistsGerdBinnigandHeinrich Rohrer, from the IBM research laboratory inZürich, were awarded the Nobel Prize for physics in 1986.Each "bump" on the surfacecorresponds to a molecule. LEMQUANTUM PHYSICSThe nanoworld is at theinterface between thequantum world and themacroscopic world –this region is referred toas the mesoscopicdimension.Its laws are sometimesthose of classical physics(based on the theories ofNewton from thebeginning of the 18thcentury) and sometimesthose of quantum physics.Quantum physicsappeared in the 20thcentury. It was namedafter Planck's principle ofquanta. Planck was ableto express any existingquantity of energy as amultiple of a "discreet"value called a "quantum"(an indivisible unit).Quantum physicsdescribes the world "on ascale" where everythingcan be quantized. Atomscan have several states,each associated with adifferent energy level.Passage from one state toanother can only beachieved if the atomreceives a precise andsufficient quantity ofenergy. This energy cancome from light, in theform of "packets" ofphotons of variouswavelengths.In classical physicsparticles and waves aretwo distinct phenomena.In quantum physics, thesetwo phenomena coexist:an electron is not only anelectrically chargedparticle but also a wave;just like a photon whichis a particle of light.Depending on the context,an electron can displaycharacteristics of aparticle or of a wave.Quantronium: the first realization of a quantum bit on an electronic chip. THE TUNNELING EFFECTQuantum mechanics predicts unusualbehaviors, of which the tunnel effectis a good example.According to the laws of classicalmechanics, a ball cannot pass overa peak unless it is given sufficientinitial energy.Quantum mechanics has shown thatan electron can cross the peakwithout possessing that much energy:it can pass to the other side as if ithad found a tunnel.This effect is manifest naturally inthe phenomena of radioactivity, suchas when radium226 transforms intoradon222 by emitting an alphaparticle… nanotechnologies, which involves the techniques and tools used to study these new properties of matter and production of newdevices, objects and systems to exploit them.SOME VERY DELICATE ANDPRECISE TOOLSThe tools used to manipulate such small objectsneed to be very delicate and precise. The scanning tunneling microscope was one of the firstinstruments created in order to be able to "see"atoms on the surface of a material. This instrument has an extremely fine metallic tip whichenables atombyatom mapping of the surfaceof a material.A scanning tunneling microscopeIn classical physics, a ball released at point A cannot rise higherthan point B (laws of dynamics).In quantum physics, an electron arriving at point B can,by the tunnel effect, reach point C situated on the other side of the peak.ElectroncurrentElectroncurrentMovementsSamplePointSPINTRONICS, PHOTONICS, MOLECULAR ELECTRONICS... SOME OF THE MANY TECHNOLOGIES BEING INVESTIGATEDTO FURTHER MINIATURIZE TRANSISTORS.New informationandcommunicationtechnologies P. Stroppa/Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworldw 9Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld8This microscope today makes it possible to moveeach individual atom, acting like an "atomicpick", by increasing the electrical potential.An atomic force microscope makes it possibleto observe nonconducting materials, such asceramic, polymer or biological materials.It is based on similar principles to thosewhich applied to the head of a record player;its operation is 100% mechanical. The tip ofthis microscope is fixed on a flexible leverarm, which interacts with the surface of thematerial. It scans the surface by followingthe topography at a very small distance. Thedeformation of the lever, illuminated by a laser,is measured by a photodetector and recordedon a computer.In a large number of experiments, researchershave used the power of supercomputers tomodel atomic structure and recreate its properties. The objective is to increase understanding in physical and biological sciencesas well as building new structures or controlling certain properties. L. Barbier/View through the porthole of an atomic forcemicroscope (AFM) operating under ultrahighvacuum. A. Gonin/Superposition of images: a surfaceobserved by a scanning tunnelingmicroscope agrees with the model of thesingle atoms of aluminum composing it.ComputerLaserSondePhotodetectorLever armDisplacement SampleAn atomic force microscopethephenomena ofdiffractionandthewavelengthof the illuminating beam used. Improvementsare currently being tested to increase its precision. For example, the wavelength of light passing through the pattern in the masks is beingdecreased, taking it from the blue region to thedeep blue and then to ultrviolet. However, newlenses need to be developed to focus this higherenergy illumination.Spatialresolution has beendoubled by utilising the wave like character oflight and the principle of interference.Constructive interference of some lightwaves leads to anincreased exposure of the photosensitive resin,while their destructive interference leaves otherstructures in darkness.Patterns can also be engraved on chips usingan electron beam, however the designs mustbe patterned one after the other. Ebeam lithography enables nanometric resolution to beattained, because the wavelength of electronsis on the order of several nanometers. This isideal for producing the initial masks which canbe reused thousands of times in optical lithography, or for fabrication of experimental circuits inthelaboratory,butnotformassproductionof chips.Photolithography will reach these fundamentaltechnical limits when the finest details are onthe order of 10 to 20 nm, which is expected tohappen by 2015.On this scale, effects due to quantum physicswill appear and disturb the operation of the cirw Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld11Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld10cuits; for example, the electrons will be able tojump from one "wire" to another by the tunneleffect (see box on page 7).Apart from the physical limits, the investmentrequired to construct factories capable of engraving such fine circuits will become prohibitive(estimatedtoday atmore thanfivebillionEuros).The topdown approach, which will have pushedthe miniaturization of MOS (metal oxide semiconductor) transistors to the extreme, shouldreach its limits in around 2020.A change of technology will then be essential.This will be the beginning of genuine nanoelectronics, utilising the properties of matter on thisscale.Thebasiccomponentswillnotbethesame.Information and communication technologiesrely on nanocomponents as basic materials.These are fabricated in two ways (see page 5).Thetopdownapproachenables thegreatestpossible reduction in the dimensions of componentsthat it is desired to fabricate. This is the routethat has been followed in electronics overthe last40 years. The most remarkable example is theintegrated circuit on a chip.The bottomup approach enables construction ofmolecules or complex groups of atoms, whichare then integrated into larger systems. The goalis to fabricate smaller, less expensive and higherquality components. It is one of the approacheswhich might,in the medium orlongerterm, allowthe limitations of Moore's Law to be exceeded.THE EVOLUTION OFMICROELECTRONICSSilicon, the raw material of the entire electronicsindustry,isanabundantelement, sinceitisextracted from sand by purification (94% of the Earth's crustis composed of silica!).Itis crystallizedin the shape of bars, 20 to 50 cm in diameter,which are cut into slices less than 1 mm thick.Hundreds of chips are simultaneously fabricatedontheseslicesbyphotolithography.This isatechnique which reproduces, in a photosensitiveresin, the design of the circuits to be created,using images from an optical mask, which canbe superimposed to obtain increasingly complexcircuits. These complicated patterns are generatedinasingleexposure.Thedetailsareimprintedon the substrate when light passes across theopenings of the mask, defining millions of transistors inaprecise andreproduciblemanner.Themost precise, industriallyobtained characteristics to date, have a thickness of 45 nm, whichallows millions of basic components  transistors to be deposited and connected to a circuit andhence to multiply the possible functionality.The photolithography technique is limited byw A silicon wafer 200 mm wide containing electrical circuits. P. Stroppa/Observation of patterns engraved using an opticalmicroscope. P. Stroppa/is said to occur when two wavessuperimpose and give more thanjust the simple addition of them.The solution comes from nanostructures: subjected to the strange laws ofthe quantum world,a silicon crystal, reduced to 10 nm, sees itsemission performance strongly modified! Toguide these photons over small dimension,therecan be no question of using fiberoptics or millimeter scale mirrors, rather a far more efficient device is required: the photonic crystal.Constructed by boring tiny holes in a semiconductor, in a periodic manner, these crystals reflect and direct the modified light. Theycan also filter it, through acting on specificwavelengths, and make it possible to confinelight in an extremely small volume (a few hundred nm).Modulation, multiplexing and decoding signals,are three areaswhere many developments are inprogress workingtowards thephoton computer.Itis the possibilityfor multiplexing which, by enabling parallelprocessing, represents the "advantage" of thephotonic computer.THE BOTTOMUP APPROACHUSING NANOCOMPONENTSThis new approach may be able to surmountthe obstacles of miniaturization. It makes useof fundamental knowledge from physics andchemistry to enable design of entirely newcomponents for molecular electronics.HOW TO PUSH BACK THELIMITS OF MOORE'S LAW?Several options are possible to extend the miniaturization route, two examples of which are thefollowing.Spintronics is bringing about themarriage of electronics and magnetism. Whereas presentdayelectronics is entirely based on manipulatingthe electric charge carriedby the electrons, spintronics utilizes their spin. Electrons have threespecific physical characteristics: their masstheir charge and their spin.This lastintrinsic characteristic, behaves as if the magnetic momentof electron appeared in the direction of internalrotationaroundanimaginary fixedaxis.For electrons, spin can only take two values: +1/2termed spin "up" or 1/2 termed spin "down",Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld12 w corresponding to the fact that it must turn inone direction or the other. This property can beused to obtain new functionality, for exampleto code, process or transmit information.A large variety ofinnovative devices, using electron spin, could be produced. These devicescombine magnetic materials,which act as polarizers or analyzers of spin, and conducting,insulating or semiconducting materials.Spintronic devices are already used in computerharddisks.They are sensorswithelectricalresistance that varies as a function of the magneticfield applied. This allows information, storedmagnetically on the disc, to be read. Spintronics makes it possible to envisage extendingstorage capacity on hard drives beyond oneterabit (1015 bits) per square inch, i.e. 155 billion bits/cm2.Otherindustrial applications are currently beingdeveloped. Hence, magnetic memories can bemade without any moving parts (unlike harddiscs). These memories are formed from a network of magnetic pillars of nanometric dimensionswhichthemselves aremadeupofmagneticlayers in which the direction of magnetization(+1/2 or 1/2) determines the state of the bit(0 or 1 respectively). Not only is it the case thatthese random access memories do not disappear in the event of a break in power supply(nonvolatility), but they are also very fast (writing and reading takes only a few nanoseconds)and they are insensitive to ionizing radiation.They make it possible to design computerswhich can be switched on and off instantaw Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld13neously by retaining all the information on thescreen. Other applications are being developed to construct radiofrequency components for telecommunications and wirelessnetworks.Photonics uses light to encode information. Allcurrent systems (computer microchips, integrated circuits, transistors) are based on thetransport, confinement and physical properties of the electron. But what will happen if,in order to achieve greater speed, the electronis replaced by the photon? These not only moveat the speed of light (300,000 km/s), but alsocause very little dissipation of heat by theirmovement.However, before photons can be used as ameans of encoding information on a chip, allof the other components for the system needto be developed, from the emitter to thereceiver, including guides and modulators.Silicon, the flagship of microelectronics, is apoor source oflight... in the macroscopic state.Measurement bench for spintronic components Artechnique/“Persistent and fastrandom access memoryusing spintronics.”Modulation: coding of the opticalsignals with the information to betransmitted.Multiplexing: division of a commontransmission channel into severaldistinct channels enablingsimultaneous transmission ofindependent signals in the samedirection.MINATECEuropean centre of excellence in micro andnanotechnology.A campus has been organized around the LETI*Institute, bringing together university institutionsand private enterprise. Officially inaugurated inJune 2006 and situated at Grenoble, Minatec, withan investment of a billion Euros over ten years, hasclean rooms and a nanocharacterization platformwhich is unique in Europe.*Laboratory of Electronics and Information Technology P. Stroppa/The electron's magnetic moment.the positioning of the bricks must be successfully controlled.Positive and negative charges attract eachother: if negatively charged particles are addedto the surface of a wafer, they will attract thepositively chargedmolecules graftedonto the surfaceof nanotubes, so creating nanocomponents.The problem of making the connections between these components and the remainder ofthe circuit remains to be resolved; without asolution, molecular electronics can go no further, in spite of its very attractive prospects.In 1974, the first molecular diode was proposed, based on a single layer of molecules.Diodes are obtained by placing two pieces ofsemiconductor in contact: one of the materials contains many electrons,while the secondis extremely poorin electrons. Moleculeswhichhave the same asymmetry were then designed;later a transistor was designed in which thechannel was in the form of one of these molecules.A transistor could also be designedwith a singleelectron. The principle involves creating a gapin the semiconductor material separated bytwo barriers that can only be crossed by tunnelefect, between the source and drain ofthe transistor, were only a given number of electronscan accumulate.When an electrical potential is applied between the source and drain, the space fills andthe current can no longer pass (this is the Couw Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld14If atombyatom fabrication of nanocomponentsis to be possible, then it will need to beperformed on an industrial scale, withoutcontrol of the selfassembling processes of thematerial, because that would require an infinite amount of time. Instead of constructinga circuit and its memory components, whichwould take too long and be too expensive,researchers plan to design molecular entities,equipped with electronic functions and ableto organize themselves. Four building blocksare available for constructing such entities:the easily obtained molecules for synthesis,biomolecules such as DNA, metallic or semiconducting nanoparticles and carbon nanotubes. But the self assembly route is difficult:15lomb blockade phenomenon). When a potential is applied to the transistor gate, a newelectron can enter, while another exits this space.Hence, by modifying the gate potential, singleelectron electronics is achieved.w In chemistry and materials science, allotropy is aproperty of certain simple elements which exist inseveral different crystalline or molecular forms. Forexample, carbon can appear in the nondifferentlyform of graphite, the lead of a pencil, or in astructured form, as diamond. The lead in a pencil iscomposed of a stack of monatomic layers ofhexagonally arranged carbon atoms. If a singlelayer of this structure is isolated, graphene isobtained. If this layer is rolled up on itself, it cantake the form of a nanotube. A nanotube hassurprising electrical and mechanical propertieswhich may offer many applications andindustrialization in the near future: nanotubes are 100 times stronger and six timeslighter than steel. They can, therefore, be used tomanufacture high performance composite materialsand to replace traditional carbon fibers: tennisrackets and golf clubs are examples of applicationsfamiliar to the general public. depending on the angle of wrapping of thegraphite layer, the nanotube is either an excellentconductor of electricity, or a semiconductor.Conductors could be used to manufacture electricalnanowires, or as nanoelectrodes in flatscreens fortelevisions and computers. Assemblies of nanotubesemiconductors and conductors could be used asbasic elements to construct nanometric electroniccomponents.GRAPHENE AND CARBON NANOTUBESWhen a given potential is applied to the gate, one electron canenter the "Coulomb island" while another leaves it. A currentis established in the transistor, the intensity of which dependson the number of electrons present on the island.A circuit for experimentation in quantum electronics. “The spin, a quantum property ofthe electron,could replace its charge for coding informationin a microchip, and help save energy.”An ultrafine slice, usuallyof silicon, wherecomponents are engraved. A. RochefortMultilayer carbon nanotubeCoulomb IslandSource Drain17ficance of its surface area compared to itsvolume. A characteristic of nanometric objectsis that they have a comparable or greaternumber of surface atoms to the number ofatoms in the volume. Surface phenomenathus play a predominant role. This is well illustrated in the natural world (see box on the following page): Hence, an insect can walk onwater but, if it was enlarged 500 times to thesize of an elephant, this would no longer bepossible... of course.Moreover, effects occurring at the interfacebetween each component are also very important. The more elements there are, the greaterthe combined surface area of all the interfaces. As a consequence this surface isw Observation of materials under a microscopereveals their composition, their granular orfiber structure and their defects. It reveals, forexample, that metal alloys are made up ofclusters of micrometer size grains.INFLUENCE OF STRUCTUREStructure determines the optical, mechanical,electrical, magnetic, thermal and other properties of materials. By altering the scale ofhomogeneity of a material, to coincide withthe scale of action of physical phenomena,some of its characteristics can be modified.Hence, a millistructured glass is transparentbut not superhydrophobic, whereas a microstructured glass is opaque but still not superhydrophobic. Only a nanostructured glass isboth transparent and superhydrophobic.Hence, are deliberatelyconstructed on thisscale: they are madeup of nanometricelements which confer them the required properties. They may be in the form of nanopowders or may consist of nanoparticlesintegrated into an ordinary matrix (socalledcomposite materials).If the size of the grains is reduced, lightermaterials are obtained having better mechanical properties including, for example, greaterstrength. The materials obtained are more malleable because the grains slide more easilywith respect to each other.The smaller and object is, the greater the signi Reactor under construction at the pilot facility for synthesis ofnanopowders by laser pyrolysis in a flow reactor.CONSTRUCTING WITH NEW PROPERTIESFOR ENERGY, TRANSPORT AND OTHER EVERYDAY LIFEAPPLICATIONS. A. Gonin/Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworldMaterials composed of partswith at least one dimension onthe 1100 nm range.Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworldw faces: selfcleaning windows, demisting mirrors, antibacterial and/or fungicidal coatings,etc.For this, a layer of these nanoparticles needsto be deposited on the surface of an object,made from ordinary material, using processessuch as solgel or vapor phase deposition."Natural" nanometric objects have always beenpresent in our environment. Grains of silverused in photographic emulsions, powderscontaining Indian ink and the stains in glasses(of certain cathedrals, for example) containnanoparticles. However, objects derived fromnanotechnology have only been manufacturedfor the past few years. Today, more than 1,000products, available to the general public, aremarketed by manufacturers claiming that atleast one element is derived from nanotechnology. Among these are found cosmetics,electronic systems and domestic and sportsproducts.For many applications,the nanoparticleswhichdetermine the properties are included in amatrix, hence creating a functional compositematerial. A lot of applications will benefit fromthis: ultralight, strong and selfhealingconcrete, polyethylene film which is madeantibacterial(by including silver nanoparticles)andwhich is impermeable to UV radiation (dueto titanium dioxide nanoparticles), suncreamswhich also include nanograins of titaniumdioxide for absorbing UV radiation which isdangerous to the skin, nanostrengthened ceraSome materials, when they are illuminated, reemitlightin the visible region:this phenomenonis known as photoluminescence. Under ultraviolet irradiation, the color of light emitted bynanocrystals of cadmium selenide changes asa function of the crystal dimensions, passingfrom blue for 2 nm grains, to green at 3 nm,and then red at 5 nm. Taking advantage of thisproperty, nanocrystals of semiconductors, oftenreferred to as quantum dots, can be used asmolecular markers, or as tags for preciousobjects and commercial products.The reactivity and the properties of some nanoparticles can be used to obtain functional surmics rendered biocompatible, plastics containing polymers and rendered conducting, nonflammable and stronger, etc.NANOTECHNOLOGIES INENERGY APPLICATIONS and nanostructured materialsare making a strategic contribution in the fieldof future nuclear energy, in particular to projects linked to "Generation IV" reactors.Indeed, new metal alloys, reinforced by veryfine oxide dispersions (ODS steels) or composites with ceramic matrices (CMC), have per18 19Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworldw immense for materials composed of nanometric objects.So it is possible to modify the properties of amaterial by working with it on this scale. Forexample, the mechanical strength of copper isthree times as high when formed from nanocrystals as when formed from microcrystals. Apowder of "bulk" nanotubes has an immensesurface area forinteractionwithits environment:several hundreds of square meters per gram.This characteristic in particular has made it possible to increase the effectiveness of catalystsfor the chemical industry and of automotiveexhaust pipes, for the same volume of material.Polymers are transparent: these are the nanocrystalsdispersed in a polymer which are fluorescent under a UV lamp. Artechnique/The gecko, a small animal which resembles alizard, has the astonishing ability to run on theceiling! Close examination of the surface of itsfeet, reveals that they are covered by a carpet ofvery tightly spaced fibers which provide thissuperadherence. Researchers are copying thisstructure to reproduce the effect as nanoVelcroTM.The lotus leaf also exhibits an astonishingproperty: it is a superhydrophobe. Nanometricinspection of its surface reveals a nanostructureon which droplets slide and this enables us tounderstand how and why, even when submergedin water, the leaf always appears dry. Thisresearch offers the possibility of producinghydrophobic glasses which could be fitted tovehicles and spectacles.NATURAL INSPIRATIONA video screen containing carbon nanotubes produced in 2005.The image displayed is taken from the Chaplin film "Gold Rush". Léti“ and nanostructured materialsare making a strategic contribution to the field offuture nuclear energy.”Preparation of flexible photovoltaic solar cells at the NationalSolar Energy Institute. C. Dupont/20 w Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworldformances which rely on their nanostructure.This structure makes it possible, for example,to strengthen their resistance for use in severeenvironments and to impart a high thermalconductivity to the material. Development ofthese nanostructured materials for the nuclearindustry will be followed by dissemination ofthis knowledge, technical knowhow and innovation, to other industrial sectors.Renewableenergies technologiesarealsomakinguse of this research.First example: photovoltaic cells. Present daycrystalline silicon devices convert a maximumof 16 to 18% of the power received from thesun into electrical energy. The manufacturingofthese cells is expensive, complex andrequiresgreat care.Nanotechnologists arepresentlydeveloping thin films or heterojunctions based onsilicon nanostructures to improve the yield of conversion and lowerthe cost of manufacturing.Membrane polymers for fuel cells have beenmade more mechanically, chemically andthermally resistant. Platinum particles, whichacted as catalysts, have been replaced by nanoparticles, saving on the use of precious metals.The range of possibilities is immense. Clearlysectors such as aeronautics and aerospace,whichare always searching forlighter,ultrahighperformance materials, will be major users.Vehicles for terrestrial, maritime and air transport will all become lighter and carry more payload, while consuming less energy and hencepolluting less. The textile industry will alsoundoubtedly see upheavals: many scientists arealready working on "intelligent" fabrics.Ceramic tungsten carbide tested as a material for the claddingof 4th generation reactors. M. Dormeval/Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 wThe nanoworldw LA NANOMÉDECINE 21NANOTECHNOLOGIES ARE BEING USED IN MEDICINEFOR PREVENTION, DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT.Medicine onthe nanoscale C.Dupont/will make it possible to compensate forfunction which has been reduced or lost, whiledecreasing the risk of side effects related totreatment. Acting at the molecular scale,nanoscience and nanotechnologies are exhibiting promising characteristics.FASTER DIAGNOSISNanoscience is improving understanding of theorganization and structure of cells, and of DNA.DNA is a molecule madeup of two strands onewrapped around the other. Each strand is asuccession of nucleotides. Each nucleotide ismade up of three elements linked together: aphosphate linked to a sugar, which can carryfour different nitrogenous bases  adenine (A),thymine (T), cytosine (see) and guanine (G).Aswith a construction kit, one strand can "pair"with another if there is complementarity: “A”pairs uniquely with “T”, and “C” with “G”. Ingenetics,the study ofthis "sequence" and identification of sections which exhibit defects ormutations, enables understanding ofthe originof genetic diseases and the predisposition ofcertain individuals to given disorders.DNA, the carrier of the human gene, cansometimes exhibit defects during its reproduction. Mutations orinconsistencies may theninduce the occurrence of cancers. Finding technologies capable of detecting tumors, at a muchInfinitely small: science changes scale 18 wThe nanoworldw w 23Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 wThe nanoworld22A large amount of research is currentlyunderway in the medical field to develop rapidand suitable tools for prevention diagnosis andtreatment.This work focuses in particular on achievingincreasingly early and detailed diagnosis, monitoring and adapting treatments according totheir effectiveness and targeting drugs at theorgans and tissues which require them; all atlower cost. This research also aims to optimizesurgical operations. Finally, new techniquesPlatedeposition robot for the production of batches used ingenomics. C. Dupont/1. Cellseparation3. Preparation andmarking of thetarget DNA5. Hybridizationprobes target DNAwhen they arecomplimentary5 a. Laserillumination revealsthe hybridizationsites by"illuminating" themarkers6. A scannerenables the biochipto be read2. DNAextraction4. Setting themarked targetDNA in contactwith the biochipearlier stage than is possible using currentmeans of medical imaging,is a major challenge.Biochips operate on the principle of hybridization of DNA, by which the complementarystrands are recognized and paired to form adouble helix.For example, when seeking to identify a nucleicacid sequence responsible for a disease: nucleic acid fragments, obtained by chemicalsynthesis, reproduce the sequence and arereferred to as "probes". They are grafted in aprecise order onto a solid support made ofglass, plastic or silicon and form a dense andregular network of microsurfaces. Each probecan contain between 40 and 60 bases. Onechip may contain several hundred thousandprobes; the sample is chemically treated to extract atype of nucleic acid known as messenger RNA; in a complex biological mixture, this messenger RNA is placed in contact with the fragments from the nucleic acid "probe" and theirconnections are analyzed using afluorescence technique.The concept of DNA chips dates back to 1990and involves a multidisciplinary approach:microelectronics, chemistry of nucleic acids,microfluidics, biology, bioinformatics, microsystems and image analysis, all play a role. Thefinal goal is to be able to offer preventativetreatmentbefore the first symptoms appear.DNAchips now make it possible to test hundreds ofDeoxyribonucleic acid.thousands of genes. They have the advantageof automating, miniaturizing and performing inparallel the various stages used in biology.Hence, on a surface area of several square centimeters, experiments can take place in a fewhours which previously would have requiredseveral months or, alternatively, the number ofexperiments performed in a given time can begreatly multiplied. In addition to diagnostics“Biochips, or chips withDNA, now make itpossible to testhundreds of thousandsof genes.” THE PRINCIPLE OF BIOCHIPOPERATIONMoreover, interactions with "healthy" organscan lead to side effects. The design of nanotransporters, providing vectorization for thesedrugs, offers two advantages: tocross biological barriers and,thanks to encapsulation, to allow therapeuticmolecules to reach their target without loss.Researchers in physics and chemistry areattempting to invent and test designs for thesenanotransporters so thatthey protectthe activesubstance (the drug) and so that it is releasedat a predetermined time and location. Othermethods underinvestigation involve integratingthe drugs into nanocapsules which releasetheir contents at a calculated time after externalstimulation or stimulation of the organism.Insulin related disorders, for example, wouldbe easier to treat in this way.Using medicinal formulations on the size ofnanoparticles (much smaller than the crystalscurrently used) will allow considerably morerapid and targeted assimilation of the drug.event of infection, they can be used to rapidlyidentify the responsible agent (virus or bacterium), to characterize it and to quickly providean effective cure.These microsystems are also used for monitoring in the agrofood industry (such as for monitoring bacteria producing lactic fermentation)and for environmental monitoring (bacterialanalysis of drinking water, detection of infectious agents in food, air or water).Cellchips are microsystems intended for veryaccurate manipulation in all possiblespatial directions and which individuallyanalyze living cells that are less than or equalto several microns in size. This techniquemakes it possible to study the effects ofa drug on the cellular scale, as well astransfection of genes or understanding theinteractionsbetweenCells, etc.MORE EFFECTIVE TREATMENTSThe ability to deliver a drug in a suitable dose,directly to the infected organ or tissue, is a realchallenge. Thanks to nanotechnologies, thisdream could become reality.Currently, drugs taken orally or intravenouslydissolve in the body before reaching theirtarget.It is, therefore, necessary to administer a largedose to the patient to be sure that the requiredresidual dose reaches the infected area.Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworldw w 25Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld24Moreover, by using specific markers, it is possible to track the course of these nanoparticleswithin the organism and to check their actionon the infected cells.In therapeutic research, one of the motivationsfor miniaturization of analysis systems is to beable to quickly test a very large number of moleculesusinginvitrosystems.Thishighflowscreeningmakes itpossible to identify goodcandidatedrugs more quickly. Indeed, currently, for every100,000 molecules tested in vitro, only a veryfew will be tested in vivo. Hence, these microsystems make it possible to more rapidly acquirenew effective treatments by evaluating a greaternumber of molecules.Sorting liposomes and collecting colloidal suspensions intoxicology. L. Médard/“It is possible tocarry out analysis inseveral hours,instead of severalmonths, on a surfaceof a few squarecentimeters.”and preventative treatments, other types of bio Targeted transport.chips are also being used to determine the resistance of certain microbes and bacteria toantibiotics and to pursue research to improvethem.In pharmaceuticalresearch, biochips arean invaluable tool for improving understandingof the action of drugs, their effectiveness andany undesirable side effects.In the same category, we have the "labonachip". These are miniaturized laboratories carrying out automated analyses, in parallel, onvery small volumes; adropofbloodwitha volumeof several nanolitres, for example. This makesit possible to reduce costs (reagents and solvents), surface areas and the energy consumed.Moreover since this labonachip is mobile, itcan be used outside of specialist laboratories,by a medical consultant for example. In theTests for detecting toxins are very simple to use and will,therefore, be useful for paramedics and emergency medicalservices. F. Vigouroux/Introduction of foreign genetic material,in particular viral material, into a cell, inorder to integrate it into the genome ofthat cell.APPLICATION OF NANOTECHNOLOGIES HAS BEEN THESUBJECT OF MANY STUDIES REGARDING ANALYSIS ANDCONTROL OF POSSIBLE RISKS.Developments forsociety26Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 wThe nanoworldw 27Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworldOTHER INNOVATIONSTransplants are often rejected by a patient’simmune system.Itis therefore hoped to encapsulate grafted cells inside a semipermeablemembrane, made up of material which is rendered biocompatible by the use of selectednanocomposites. Nanopores would allownutrients to enter and secreted substances toleave the graft. However, antibodies, which arelarger than the nanopores, would not be ableto pass through this barrier.In the case of prostheses, the objective is tomanufacture materials which do not degradeand which can last beyond the current tenyear lifespan. Research is being carried out oncomposite which are more wearresistant than metals.Another channel of research is studying thepossibility of assisting a failing organ by meansof a nanometric size implant or through stimulating it using a nanostructured mesh. Bycultivating these cells in vivo, the tissue canbe helped to regenerate itself, by creatingnanometerscale connections between each cellin order to obtain an established and viableassembly, as has been the practice for skinand cartilage.A screening robot which can compare a molecule with the17,000 compounds in its chemical library, to discoverinhibitors for many toxins. C. Dupont/Nanoemulsions, developed by the and CNRSfor drug transport applications, are made of oildroplets. The core of these nanoemulsions cancontain an active substance. Being nontoxic, theyare "biocompatible" and will cross biologicalbarriers to reach the tumor to be treated.Researchers are also working on the wateroilinterface to increase specific recognition of thetumor.NANODROPLETS OF OIL FORTRANSPORTING DRUGS“Having effective treatments more rapidlyavailable, by evaluating a greater number ofmolecules.” C. Dupont/Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld28 w DEVELOPMENTS FOR SOCIETYPOTENTIAL RISKSThe notion of risk linked to nanotechnologiescovers two aspects: dangers resulting fromtoxicity, and exposure. Research in toxicologyis evaluating the real and hypothesized dangers.Study of urban pollution looks for impacts onhuman health, in particular from the effectsof ultrafine particles emitted by diesel vehicles.In the same vein, other studies are looking atthe interactions between nanoparticles andcells, encouraging prudence in the event ofinhalation, penetration through the skin oringestion. A forward planning step is therefore in place.Inworkshopswhere they are produced or used,if nanoparticles contain toxic material (forexample, heavy metals), they can exposeworkers to the risks as in the case of microscopic form. There is, however, an additionalrisk linked to the specific properties of nanoparticles: the much larger surface area, chemical reactivity, etc. Research is thereforecurrently being undertaken to discover whathappens to nanoparticles and nanofibers iftheyare inhaled. Good working practice is verysimilar to that recommended for other dangerous chemical products, but they have particular significance here, because of the largecapability of nanoobjects to diffuse in theatmosphere. In the industrial environment, itis necessary to design processes which minimize the stages which offer potential exposure; for example, by carrying out the collection of nanoobjects under liquid in order toguarantee that they are not dispersed in theevent of an incident. It should also be ensuredthat each stage of the process is automated,to capture the pollutants at source, to filterthe air from rooms before exhausting to theatmosphere and to individually equip eachworker with respiratory and skin protection.For consumers, it is a question of ensuring thatthey are not put into contact with potentiallydangerous products. Hence, these technologies are implemented so that productsavailable to the general public do not containfree nanoparticles and so as to avoid producSmallangle Xray scattering can be used to characterize thespatial organization of nanoparticles and their aggregation,basic components for understanding the toxicologymechanisms. C. Dupont/w DEVELOPMENTS FOR SOCIETYInfinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld29APPLICATIONS IN ALL FIELDSNanotechnologies should make it possible tocreate objects that provide more services whilstconsuming less materials and less energy. Theycould thus reduce the environmental impact ofcertain industries (such as those related toenergyproduction) andof certainactivities (suchas transport or information technology).In parallel to their contribution in the field ofdevelopment of new energy technologies (seep.20), they will also contribute to decreasingenergy consumption by improving the energyefficiency of existing objects. In this respect,we think of lighter and stronger materials usedin vehicles, replacement of incandescent lightbulbs by electroluminescent diodes (much lesshungry for electricity), replacement of thecathoderay screens by liquid crystal systems(10 times less energy consuming), etc. Last,but not least, there is the challenge of developing low consumption nanoelectronic components to build energetically efficient computersystems; today, 13% of the world’s electricityis devoted to this sector!Nanotechnologies can contribute to the detection of pollution. Reliable, fast and relativelyinexpensive nanosensors will make it possibleto track all kinds of undesirable, organic andinorganic, molecules in the water, atmosphereand soil. Once detected this pollution needs tobedealtwith.This involvesnewwatertreatmentsor the design of new catalysts to trap nanoparticles from the exhausts of automobileengines, airplane engines, chemical factories,etc.An international panel of experts has drawn upalistofthe10nanotechnologyapplicationswhichthey judge to be of greatest benefit to developing countries: these are energy (new solar cellsand fuel cells), agriculture (nanofertilizers),water treatment (filtration, decontamination,desalination), medical diagnosis, drug delivery,packaging and storage of food, reduction andcontrol of atmospheric pollution, constructionmaterials,monitoringbiologicalparameters (glycemia, cholesterol) detection of harmful insectsand of disease vectors. Some of these are nottoocomplicated,expensiveordemandingofinfrastructure, and could be developed on location.India, Brazil and China are devoting significantinvestmentto nanotechnologies and manyother countries, which already possess a university and industrial infrastructure, such asSouth Africa, Thailand and Argentina, are alsoundertaking research in nanotechnology.Prototype of a toxic gas detector for the environment. L. Godard/“Toxicology researchers are evaluatingthe real and hypothesized dangersof nanotechnologies.”Infinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld30 w DEVELOPMENTS FOR SOCIETYto society and the reactions which lead to technical innovations. Scientific excellence andinnovation must be accompanied by precautionary measures corresponding to the uncertainties in new products coming fromnanotechnologies.Ifresearcherswish to ensurethat the fruits of their research are acceptable,then they need to take account of the interestsof allthe various stakeholders. There have,therefore, been many reports produced whichattemptto evaluate the potential impact of nanotechnology on society.For example, the British report "Nanoscienceand nanotechnologies: opportunities and uncertainties", produced in 2004, recommendsapplying the precautionary principle, as did thereport by the French Committee for Preventionand Precaution in 2006, followed by that fromthe French Agency for Health, Safety, Environment and Work. The Parliamentary officefor the evaluation of scientific and technological choices organized several meetings onnanotechnologies andproduceda report"Nanosciences et progrès médical (Nanoscience andMedical Progress)” encouraging performanceof research in nanosciences and nanotechnology in parallel with research on possible risksand impacts. In 2005, the European commission launched a strategic European plan inorder to give careful thought to the risks, usesand impacts of nanotechnologies.In mid2007,it proposed adoption of a code of conduct onthis subject which was published in February2008. In March 2008, the Commission alsoset up the new European Observatory on Nanotechnologies. For France, this observatory willbe the responsibility of the OMNT and theLARSIM (see box below).w DEVELOPMENTS FOR SOCIETYInfinitely small: science changes scale 18 w The nanoworld31STRUCTURES FOR NANO STUDIES AT THE C. Dupont/tion of such particles during use, for exampleduring ageing or degradation.Questions arise with regards to the potentialeffects of manufactured nanoparticles on theenvironment (behavior, degradation mechanisms) and the impact of their dispersal onecosystems (possible dangers to certainspecies). Research aimed at studying theirecotoxicity is in progress.Many countries, such as the United States andFrance, are taking action to evaluate and controlthe risks linked to nanoparticles and theirpossible sideeffects; taking account of theircharacteristics, their possible contaminationroutes, means of protection, means of production, the behavior of nanoparticles in theenvironment, etc.In Europe, in 2005, the got together withother R&D partners from the chemical andtechnological industries to form an "integratedproject" called Nanosafe2. This project can bedivided into four areas of development: technologies for detection and characterization of nanoparticles starting at the productionstage; an international network to put together adatabase on the effects of nanoparticles onorganisms and the environment; fully integrated manufacturing lines, to produce the final components without humancontact with the precursor nanoparticles(aerosol, gas or liquid). Life Cycle Analysis and studies of recyclingprocesses, in order to control the effects onhealth and the environment, in associationwith the European Committee for Standardization.For the first time, medical environmental andsocial repercussions are being considered andstudied in parallel with development of newtechnologies and safe methods for productionof nanoparticles are being put in place. Thissimultaneous approach should allow anticipation and control of any possible, associatedhazards and allowspecific regulations to evolvein line with progress in understanding and withthe research in progress.ETHICAL QUESTIONS RAISEDBY NANOSCIENCE ANDNANOTECHNOLOGYWhen considering the problems of nanotechnology, ethical reflection goes beyond thelimits of pure deontology (which is defined asa collection of professional behavior and rules).Ethics there analyses the changes that scientific research introduces into the world, theresponsibilities of the researchers with regardOMNT: Observatory for Micro and Nanotechnologies.The mission of this observatory, set up in 2005 on theinitiative of the and CNRS, involves keeping aconstant scientific and technological watch on the fieldof micro and nanotechnologies. To do this, it relies ona network of more than 230 French and Europeanscientists. Hence it can inform relevant organizationsand ministries and provide industrialists with relevantuptodate information.LARSIM: The Physical Science Research Laboratorywas formed within the in 2007. It is the firstlaboratory of the dedicated to the philosophy ofscience. LARSIM has been given the goal of studying,and making more comprehensible, issues ofcontemporary scientific research. In parallel with itswork on the place of science in society, LARSIM iscarrying out a research program on the foundations ofphysics.nanoworld thatwe're talking here so it talks abouta very small world okay existing inwith us only that it's it can only beseen bycertain microscopes okay in which wecannot seeusing the naked eye so the global marketleaderfor tips for um the scanning probemicroscope it started with the scanningpro microscopeand with the atomic force microscopingwhich we're going to discuss a littlebitafter this and we're going to talk aboutum in this videothe spheres of influence ofnanotechnology so overall we're going totalk about these thingsum by the end of this batch of videos sofirst upum for the purposes of this video is asmuch as this as this first video isconcernedwe're going to talk about the originsfirst okay the originsof the nanoworld okay so we're still inour science technology and societyplaylistso let's go back to the scanningprobe microscope okay short for spmokay so this is taken from this websitehereso this is um how the scanning probemicroscope worksso we have a laser here a photodiode andsuch attackers and feedback electronicsand how and this is wherethe image is being being stored into theto the microscope itself so we weactually this is just a microscopy weusewhat we call a scanning tunnelingmicroscopein doing such so this is a branch ofmicroscopyokay that forms images on surfaces usinga physical probethat scans the specimen itself okayso this was first intro founded in wayback 1981 1982with the invention of the like i saidscanning tunneling microscopethis is an instrument for imagingservices at a veryatomic level so that is in a very verysmall levelokay which is not anymore or cannot beany moreseen by the naked eye okay so this isthe scanning probe microscopy we'regoing to talk about theafm next that's the atomic forcemicroscopy we have here the diagram thatthat explains how it works still itstilluses some laser that's why it's one typeof a scanning probe microscope or an spmwith demonstrated resolution on theorder of fractions okay on a nanometerthis is more than one thousand timesbetter than an optical diffraction limitso the information is gathered byfeeling okay or touchingthe surface with a mechanical probe sothis is our mechanicalprobe here so you are touching it okayand this is since this is our sampleokay so where is touching or feeling thethe um the surface okay with this suncatechol probe and then um again this isone type of the scanningpro microscopy sonext is we're going to deal with theorigins of the nanoscienceas we will just this as this umchapter is going to focus on so theorigin of nanosciencefirst in 1959 it was discussed by therenowned of course ourum ever famous scientist or physicistrichard feyman in his talk there'splenty of room at the bottomin which he described the possibility ofsynthesisvia direct manipulation of atoms okayagain direct manipulation of atoms thiswas againway back um in 1959so in 1960 egyptian engineer mohammedatalaand korean engineer davon kang sorry ifi mispronounced thoseat bell labs fabricated the first mosfetor ms mos rather mosfetmetal oxide semiconductor field effecttransistorso with a gate oxide thickness of 100nanometersalong with a gate length of 20 okaymicrometersso that's that's a that's a step furtherin 1962 furthermore atala and kangfabricated a nano layer basemetal semiconductor junction we callthat the ms junctionokay transistor that use gold okay thinphillipswith a thickness of 10 nanometers sothat'sthe next improvement in in sciencetechnology as you can seeum these years only differ by one or twobut you can see the the improvements umum is getting better and better as weall know science is not staticit's constantly changing and changing sofurthermore let's discussum the next part is the termnanotechnology when is this used thiswas first usedin 1974 by noriotaniguchi okay andgo back after how many six umafter what 12 years afterthat in 1968 around 12 yearsk eric drexler used the termnanotechnology okay now this timewithout the dashin his book engines of creation thecoming era of nanotechnologies so fromthe title of the bookhe used the term nanotechnology as it iswhich proposed the idea of of ananoscaleassembler a nanoscale assembler whichwould be able to build a copy of itselfand other items of arbitrary complexitywith atomic controlso in 1980 umthe emergence of nanotechnology as afieldokay occurred through convergence ofdexlerdexler's theoretical and public work soit's because of dexter thatnanotechnology is now considered asanother discipline another fieldin 1986 drexler cofounded the foresightinstituteto help increase public awareness andunderstanding of nanotechnologyconcepts and the implications of it okayagain this is way back 1986 this is justthe originsyou one can imagine um whatother uses of nanotechnology has beenis now okay given that it's nowin 2021 so the uses of nanotechnology isof courseIntroduction Nanoworld of science and technology is of great interest to governments, industries and academia. The prefix “nano” denotes sizes of the order of onebillionth of a meter. “Nanostructure science and technology is a broad and interdisciplinary area of research and development activity that has been growing explosively worldwide in the past few years. It has the potential for revolutionizing the way in which materials and products are created and the range and nature of functionalities that can be accessed” (Siegel, 1999, p. xvii). “Motors, turbines that go from zero to half a million RPM’s in a microsecond; clamps that can literally fit onto the back of a flea – science fiction? No” (Carraher, Jr., 1994a, p. 109). According to the Semiconductor Industry Association (2003), in 1971 it cost 10 cents to manufacture a computer chip which contained 2,300 transistors and had a clock speed of 0.8 million cycles/second. In 2003 the cost of manufacturing a computer chip (e.g., Pentium) containing 108 million transistors and a clock speed of 3,000 million cycles/second was 1/1000 cents. Notably the size of the technology has decreased from 10,000 nm in 1971 to a mere 65 nm in 2003 and is predicted to reach 32 nm by the year 2007. The number of articles (registered by the Institute for Scientific Information) with “nano” as a topic increased from approximately 60 in year 1995 to over 3,000 by year 2004, indicating an increase in the level of interest in this critical area. In 2004, the US spent an estimated 1.6 billion dollars on nanotechnology and registered over 800 nanotechnology patents (Loder, 2005). In the United States “nanotechnology is the largest federally funded science initiative since the country decided to put a man on the moon” (Loder, 2005, p. 4). According to Roco (1999), “nanotechnology is presently at a level of development similar to that of computer information technology in the 1950s” (p. 132). Nanoscience and Nanotechnology The two terms often used in the literature with reference to the world of nano materials are nanoscience and nanotechnology. Nano materials denote “divided matter.” As Rao (1999) said, “if you take a piece of solid matter (say a metal) containing an Avogadro number of atoms and go on dividing it to smaller bits, you will ultimately end up with an atom of the substance. Before that, you will reach a stage of very tiny particles containing 100 to 10,000 atoms. Such particles with diameters of 150nm (10500 Ao) are referred to as nanoparticles. Nanomaterials exhibit properties entirely different from bulk materials and constitute materials of the future” (p. 59). Increased surface area and quantum effects are the two key factors that separate nanomaterials from bulk materials (The Royal Society and The Royal Academy of Engineering, 2004). A substance of size 3 nm has 50% of its atoms on the surface compared to a substance of size 30 nm with 5% of its atoms on its surface. As size decreases more quantum effects begin to manifest in the form of electrical, magnetic and optical properties. Nanoscience refers to the scientific study of materials of nanometer size, i.e., one billionth of a meter (The Royal Society, 1994). It is a combination of developments in solid state chemistry, synthetic chemistry, molecular biology, solid state physics and engineering, and scanning tunneling microscopy. According to Alfred Nordmann (cited in Schummer, 2003), it is a “siteoriented technoscience approach that differs both from classical theorydriven and problemdriven research” (p. 2). For example, nanosized indium melts at much lower temperature than respective bulk metal (Allen, 2002). Copper in extremely thin layers, in the presence of magnetic field, becomes a poor conductor of electricity (Loder, 2005). Nanotechnology refers to various technologies to produce materials of extra high precision and dimensions on the scale of onebillionth of a meter. (Norio Taniguchi of Tokyo Science University is credited with coining the term “nanotechnology” in 1974.). Nanotechnology “implies the ability to generate and utilize structures, components, and devices with a size range from about 0.1nm (atomic and molecular scale) to about 100nm (or larger in some situations) by control at atomic, molecular, and macromolecular levels” (Roco, 1999, p. 131). One of the most interesting aspects of nanotechnology is building moleculeby molecule materials similar to those produced by biological selfassembly, selforganization and selfregulation (Carraher, Jr., 1994b). As Stoddart (cited in The Royal Society, 1994) described, “think of atoms as the equivalent to letters, molecules as words, assemblages of molecules as sentences, and supramolecular arrays as paragraphs” (p. 2). Nanotechnology examples and applications include the following (Institute of Nanotechnology, n.d.). Nanotechnology Examples Cell Pharmacology: Use of nanomachines for sitespecific delivery of drugs, and useful in chemotherapy of targeted cancer cells. Cell Surgery: Use of medical nanomachines to manipulate cellular structures in genetic engineering. Molecular Electronics: Use of atomically precise molecular parts for molecular switches, circuits and nanocells for creating miniaturized nanocomputers. Scanning Tunneling Microscopy (Carraher, Jr., 1995): Useful for imaging conducting surfaces. Nanotechnology Applications Nanocrystals: Formed by combining two or more molecules of inorganic substances, i.e., silica and aluminum to form commercial grade heat and rust resistant coatings. Nanotubes: Carbon atom aggregates in various forms at nanoscale, for example in the shape of cylinders which are electrical conductors, can be mixed with special polymers to make nanofibres and painted on rooftops as part of solar cells. Quantum Dots: Size and arrangement of nanocrystals impact physical properties such as color (Carraher, Jr., 1994c). For example, nanogold appears orange (<1nm) or red (3 30nm) depending on the size and arrangement of gold aggregates. Clear Sunscreen containing nanosized Zinc Oxide particles allows visible light to pass through and absorbs UV rays, hence appears colorless whereas bulk Zinc Oxide in regular sunscreens scatters visible light resulting in white color. Organization The National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) Committee on Technology, The Interagency Working Group on NanoScience, Engineering and Technology (IWGN) (1999) broadly organized nanoscience and nanotechnology into four groups as follows: • Dispersions and coatings (e.g., functional nanocoatings, optical and thermal insulators, inkjet, recording devices) • High surface area materials (e.g., bacterial filters, molecular sieves, adsorption surfaces, energy storage devices) • Functional nanodevices (e.g., biomedical sensors, nanotubes in color displays, DNA sizing and sequencing). The functional nanodevices have a large biological component compared to the other three categories. • Consolidated materials (nanocomposite cement, ultrahigh strength materials, soft magnets, magnetic refrigerants). Nanoscale Dimensions Nanoworld is a highly integrated and extensively broad area of research and development. The Royal Society and The Royal Academy of Engineering (2004) have categorized nanoscience into nanoscale in one dimension; nanoscale in two dimensions; and nanoscale in three dimensions. Nanoscale in one dimension includes thin films, layers and engineered surfaces. They provide large surface area support in catalysts useful for “onsite” manufacturing of pharmaceuticals in smaller quantities. Nanoscale in two dimensions consists of materials such as carbon nanotubes, inorganic nanotubes, nanowires and biopolymers. Carbon nanotubes in the form of wires and tubes exhibit a wide range of electrical and mechanical properties. Inorganic nanotubes are potentially useful as catalysts and lubricants. Nanoscale in three dimensions includes nanoparticles, fullerenes, dendrimers and quantumdots. Nanoparticles show optical properties, high chemical reactivity and are useful for targeted drug delivery while fullerenes resemble miniature ball bearings. Potential Uses The joint Center for Bioethics in Canada ranked potential uses of nanosciences and nanotechnologies with respect to development. The top ten uses follow (BBC News, 2005). • Energy production, conservation and storage • Enhancement of Agricultural productivity • Treatment and remediation of water • Screening and diagnosing diseases • Systems for drug delivery • Processing and storing food • Controlling air pollution • Construction • Monitoring health • Detecting and controlling pests Issues The nanoworld is not without issues. The National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) Committee on Technology in the United States raised concerns over the short term and long term health issues originating from nanotechnology products. Certain types of single walled carbon nanotubes are water soluble and shown to enter T cells (King, 2005). Carbon nanotubes are pulmonary toxicants. The British Government (2005) in a regulatory effort required all new nano materials be treated with caution as new chemicals in terms of registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction. End Note The nanoworld is perhaps the fastest growing world in the twentyfirst century. Global competition among nations in nanotechnology research, development and marketing is on the rise. Advantages of nanotechnology towards improving the quality of life are many.  However, disadvantages of nanotechnology especially related to human health and the environment are only beginning to surface raising serious concerns. Systematic exploration, characterization, organization, and regulation of the nanoworld are warranted to make the best use of nanoscience and nanotechnology. The nanoworld will continue influence science and technology. References Allen, L. H. (2002). Nanocalorimetry studies of materials: melting point depressions and magic nanostructures. NNUN Abstracts, 40. BBC News. (2005). Nanotech promise for global poor. The Nano World and Gene Therapy (Stem Cells) A nanometer (nm) is a billionth of a meter. 1 nanometer is about 100 times smaller than a bacterial cell. Your fingernails grow at the rate of about 1 nanometer per second. A 7foottall basketball player is 2 billion nanometers tall. Nanotechnology is already applied commercially in products ranging from mobile phones, computer discs, tennis rackets and golf clubs to sunscreens and cosmetics. L'Oreal have developed nanosize vesicles called nanosomes, which are used to transport active ingredients such as pure Vitamin E through the skin Nanoscience is not just one science. It is a platform that includes biology, chemistry, physics, materials science and engineering. Overview Over the past few decades, research has been moving towards the infinitely small the nanoworld. The production of nanotechnologies and nanodevices is now occurring at a rapid pace. Its applications are widely diverse and have affected a variety of fields of science and industry including energy, environmental science, food security, electronics, and medicine. In medicine, nanotechnology promises to revolutionize drug delivery, diagnostic techniques, and gene therapy. Scientists develop new gene therapy approaches that offer a promise for one day treating different inherited and acquired diseases. We have seen the huge potentials of new technologies or fields of study, but how about the risks? It is important for us to examine the potential for unintended consequences, especially those related to human and environmental health. In this module, we will talk about nanotechnology, gene therapy, and their benefits and concerns. Learning Outcomes 1. Discuss the implication of nanotechnology in society. 2. Describe the concept of gene therapy and its various forms. 3. Assess the potential benefits and detriments of nanoworld and stem cell to global health. Discussion 1.1 The Nano World Just as human understanding of the natural world was revolutionized by the discovery of light microscopes, modern microscopes that can expose and change individual atoms are once again exposing a whole new worldthe nano world. Scientific researchers have developed new technological tools that greatly improved different aspects of our lives through the use of nanoscale. Nanotechnology refers to the science, engineering, and technology conducted at the nanoscale. It is concerned with building 'things'  generally, materials and devices on the scale of atoms and molecules. It encompasses science and technology that manufactures materials of great help to the improvement of various areas of society especially health, environment, energy, electronics, food, water, and agriculture. History Antecedents of Science and Technology 3 How Small is a Nanoscale? A nanometer is onebillionth of a meter. The illustration below shows how small nanoscale is compared to other particles or materials.   (Source: https://www.nano.gov/nanotech101) How to view Nanomaterials Scientists use special types of microscopes to view minute nanomaterials. These are the electron microscopes, and the atomic force microscope and scanning tunneling microscope which are just among the modern and remarkable advances in microscopy. 1. Electron microscope It utilizes a particle beam of electrons to light up a specimen and develop a wellmagnified image. They can magnify objects up to a million times.  (Source: https://dissolve.com/stockphoto) History Antecedents of Science and Technology 4 2. Atomic force microscope It makes use of a mechanical probe that gathers information from the surface of a material.  (Source: https://www.polymersolutions.com/) 3. Scanning tunneling microscope It enables scientists to view and manipulate nanoscale particles, atoms, and small molecules.  (Source: https://www.alamy.com/) Nanomanufacturing It refers to scaledup, reliable, and costeffective manufacturing of nanoscale materials, structures, devices, and systems. It leads to the development of new products and improved materials. Below are the two fundamental approaches to nanomanufacturing. 1. Bottomup fabrication It manufactures products by building them up from atomic and molecularscale components. However, this process can be timeconsuming. Scientists and engineers are still in search for effective ways of putting up together molecular components that selfassemble. 2. Topdown fabrication It trims down large pieces of materials into nanoscale. This process needs larger amounts of materials and discards excess raw materials. History Antecedents of Science and Technology 5 Benefits and Concerns of Using Nanotechnology Nanotechnology has various applications in different sectors of the society and environment. However, there are concerns that need to be addressed before using and promoting materials derived from nanotechnology. 1. Nanotechnology is not a single technology; it may become prevalent. 2. It seeks to develop new materials with specific properties. 3. New efficiencies and paradigms may be introduced that may render certain natural resources and current practices uncompetitive or obsolete. 4. It may be complicated to detect its presence unless one has the specialist tools of nanotechnology. Table 1. Benefits and Concerns of the Application of Nanotechnology in Different Areas Example of Areas Affected by Nanotechnology Possible Benefits Concerns Environment Improved detection and removal of contaminants Development of benign industrial processes and materials High reactivity and toxicity Pervasive distribution in the environment No nanospecific EPA regulation Health Improved medicine Ability to cross cell membranes and translocate in the body No FDA approval needed for cosmetics or supplements Economy Better products New jobs Redistribution of wealth Potential cost of cleanups and healthcare Accessibility to all income levels. 1.2 Gene Therapy Medical Science has detected many human diseases related to defective genes. These types of diseases are not curable by traditional methods like taking readily available medicines. History Antecedents of Science and Technology 6 Gene therapy is an experimental technique for the treatment or prevention of disease using genes. In the future, instead of using drugs or surgery, this technique could allow doctors to treat a disease by inserting a gene into the cells of a patient. The Basic Process There are several approaches to gene therapy. These are the following: Replacement of mutated gene that causes disease with a healthy copy of the gene. Inactivation of a mutated gene that is functioning improperly. Introducing a new gene into the body to help fight a disease. In general, a gene cannot be directly inserted into a human gene or cell. A gene is inserted into another gene using a carrier or vector. At present, the most common type of vectors are viruses that have been genetically changed to carry normal human DNA. Two Types of Gene Therapy 1. Somatic gene therapy involves the manipulation of genes in any cells of the body except sperm and egg cells that will be helpful to the patient but not inherited to the patient's descendants. 2. Germline gene therapy involves the genetic modification of reproductive cells such as sperm and egg cells that will pass the change on to the next generation. Stem Cell Gene Therapy Have you heard about stem cells in the news? If yes, perhaps you've wondered if they might help you or your loved one with a serious disease. You may wonder how they're being used to treat diseases, and why they are being discussed so vigorously. Stem cells are mother cells that have the potential to become any type of cell in the body. Under the right conditions in the body or a laboratory, stem cells divide to selfrenew or multiply. They can become cells of the blood, heart, bones, skin, muscles, brain, among others. Why is there such an interest in stem cells? Researchers and doctors hope stem cell studies can help to: 1. Increase understanding of how diseases occur. 2. Generate healthy cells to replace diseased cells (regenerative medicine). 3. Test new drugs for safety and effectiveness. Sources of stem cells 1. Embryonic stem cells are derived from a three to fivedayold human embryo that is in blastocyst phase of development and has about 150 cells. The embryos are usually extras History Antecedents of Science and Technology 7 that have been created in IVF (in vitro fertilization) clinics where several eggs are fertilized in a test tube then implanted into a woman. 2. Somatic stem cells are cells that exist throughout the body after embryonic development. They are also capable of selfrenewal and, with appropriate signals, differentiate into various cell types from the organ from which they are derived. The extent to which they are capable of creating various types of cells is controversial.IntroductionScientific researchersDeveloped new technological tools that improve aspects of our livesNanoscaleOne important interdisciplinary area generated by science and technological advancementsAbout 1 to 100 nanometersScientists and researchersBuild materials with innovative properties by manipulating nanomaterialsNanomaterialsResearch: widespread implications in society (health care, environment, energy, food, water,agricultureNanotechnologyScience, engineering, and technology conducted at the nanoscaleNanoscience and nanotechnologyStudy and application of exceptionally small thingsConcepts: Started in Dec. 29,1959oRichard Feyman  physicist; methods in which scientists can direct and control individual atoms and moleculesTalk: “There’s Plentyof Room at the Bottom”oProfessor Norio Taniguchi  coined the term “nanotechnology”How Small is a NanoscaleNanometer  billionth of a meter; 109 of a meterNanomaterialsManipulation: need an adept understandingof types and dimensionsClassified according to their shapes and sizesHow to View NanomaterialsScientists use special types of microscopes:Electron microscopesField microscopesModern and remarkable advancements in microscopy:Scanning tunneling microscopesAtomic force microscopes1. Electron MicroscopeErnst Ruska and Max Knoll  German engineers; built the first electron microscopein1930sUtilizes a particle beam of electrons to lightup and developProduces a higher and better resolutionCan magnify objects up to million times(Conventional light microscopes  magnify up to 1500 times only)2 general types of electron microscopes:oSEM  Scanning electron microscopeoTEM  Transmission electron microscope2. Atomic Force MicroscopeGerd Binig, Calvin Quate, and Christoph Gerber  developed this in 1986Makes use of mechanical probe  gathers info from surface of materials3. Scanning tunneling microscopeGerd Binig and Heinrich Roher  won the Nobel Prize in Physics bec of thisSpecial type of microscope that enables scientists to view and manipulate nanoscale particlesNanomanufacturingRefers to scaledup, reliable,and costeffective manufacturing of nanoscaleInvolves research, improvement,and incorporationLeads to the development of new products and improved materialsTwo Fundamental Approaches to nanomanufacturing:1. Bottomup fabricationBuild products from atomicand molecularscale componentsCan be timeconsumingScientists and engineers are still in search for the effective ways of puttingup components that selfassemble2. Topdown fabricationTrims down to large pieces of materialsinto nanoscaleNeeds larger amounts of materials and discards excess raw materialsNew approaches to the assembly of nanomaterials based from the topdown and bottomup fabrications1. Dippen lithographyTip of an atomic force microscope is”dipped” into a chemical fluid and then utilized to “write” on a surface2. SelfassemblySet of components join together to moldan organized structure in the absence of an outside direction3. Chemical vapor depositionChemicals act in response to form very pure, highperformance films4. Nanoimprint lithographyGenerating nanoscale attributes by “stamping” or “printing” them on a surface5. Molecular beam epitaxyDepositing extremely controlled thin films6. Rolltoroll processingHghvolume practice for constructing nanoscale devices on a roll of ultrathin plastic or metal7. Atomic layer epitaxyLaying down oneatomthick layers on a surfaceThese techniques made nanomaterials more durable, stronger, lighter, waterrepellent, etc.ComputersNear future: better, more efficient, larger storage, faster, energysavingEntire memory of a computer will be aved in a single tiny chipNanotechnologyConstruct highefficiency, lowcost batteriesand solar cellsDistinct Features of NanoscaleNanotechnology – operating at a very small dimension; allows scientists to make use of theexceptional optical, chemical, physical, mechanical, and biological qualities of materials1. Scale at which much biology occurs Various cell activities at the nanoscaleDeoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) – genetic material of the cell ; only about 2 nanometers in diameterHemoglobin – transports oxygen to tissues throughout the body; 5.5 nanometers in diameterBiobarcode assay – fairly inexpensive approach for identification of specific disease markers in the blood despite their small number in a particular specimen2. Scale at which quantum effects dominate properties of materialsParticles with dimensions of 1100 nanometers have properties significantlydiscrete from particles of bigger dimensionsQuantum effects – direct the behavior and properties of particlesSize of material = propertiesEssential properties of nanoscale that change as a function of size:oChemical reactivityoFluorescenceoMagnetic permeabilityoMelting pointoElectrical conductivityNanoscale gold – yellowcolored elementwhich may appear red or purple;Gold’s electron – display restricted motion in nanoscaleNanoscale gold particles – build up in tumors; permit both precise imaging andtargeted laser destruction of the tumor3. Nanoscale materials have far larger surface areas than similar masses of largerscale materialsSurface area per mass of a material = greater amount of the material comes incontact with another material Material: Filled with: Result:1 cubic centimeterMicrometersized cubes (trillion 1012 of them)Surface area: 6 square micrometers eachTotal surface area: 6 square meters1 cubic centimeter1nanometersized cubes (1012 of them)Surface area: 6 square nanometers eachTotal surface area: 6,000 square matersGovernment Funding for Nanotechnology in Different Countries (Dayrit, 2005)US National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI)– bestknown, mostfunded program; 2001; 2008 budget: $1.4B; 2009 budget: $1.5BEurope European Commission (EC) – Feb 2008; launched the ENIAC (European Nanoelectronics Initiative Advisory Council)Japan Nanotechnology Research InstituteTaiwan Taiwan National Science and Technology Program for Nanoscience and NanotechnologyIndia Nanotechnology Research and Education FoundationChina National center for Nanoscience and TechnologyIsrael Israel National Nanotechnology InitiativeAustralia Australian Office of NanotechnologyCanada National Institute for Nanotechnology (NINT)South KoreaKorea National Nanotechnology InitiativeThailand National Nanotechnology Center(NANOTEC)Malaysia National (Malaysia) Nanaotechnology Initiatives or NNIPossible Applications of Nanotechnology in the Philippines (Dayrit, 2005)1. ICT and semiconductors2. Health and medicine3. Energy4. Food and agriculture5. EnvironmentNanotech Roadmap for the Philippines (funded by PCASTRDDOST)1. ICT and semiconductors2. Health and biomedical3. Energy4. Food and agriculture5. Environment6. Health and environmental risk7. Nanometrology8. Education and public awarenessBenefits and Concerns of Using NanotechnologyNanotechnology – various applications in different sectors of society and environmentAddressing Global Challenges Using Nanotechnology – initiative by SalamancaBuentello; accelerate the use of nanotechnology to address critical sustainable development challenges; possible contributionsof community to overcome global challengesConcerns that need to be addressed before using and promoting materials derived from nanotechnology (Dayrit, 2005):1. Nanotechnology is not a single technology; it may become pervasive2. Nanotechnology seeks to develop new materials with specific properties3. Nanotechnology may introduce new efficiencies and paradigms4. It may be complicated to detect its presence unless one has the specialist tools of nanotechnologyBenefits and Concerns of the Application of Nanotechnology in Different AreasExample ofAreasAffected byNanotechnologyPossibleBenefits ConcernsEnvironment  Detection  High and removal of contaminants Developmentof benign industrial processes and materialsreactivity and toxicity Pervasive distribution in environment No nanospecific EPA regulationHealth Improved medicine Ability to cross cell membranes and translocate in the body No FDA approval for cosmetics and supplementsEconomy  Better products New jobs Redistributionof wealth Potential cost of cleanups Accessibility to all income levelsSummaryNanotechnologyAdvanced interdisciplinary fieldManufactures materials of great help to theimprovementField that needs to be explored by experts and neophytes Before engaging with nanotechnology, we need to account the social, ethical, and environmental concerns of using such nanomaterials1. ELECTRONICMICROSCOPE German engineers ErnstRuska and Max Knollbuilt the first electronmicroscope during1930s. Type of microscope thatutilizes a particle beam ofelectrons to light upspecimen and develop awell magnified image. Electron microscopesproduce higher andbetter resolution thanolder light microscopes.TWO GENERAL TYPES OFELECTRONIC MICROSOPE Transmission Electron Microscope(TEM) Scanning Electron Microscope(SEM)2. ATOMIC FORCE MICROSCOPE (AFM) Developed by Gerd Binig, Calvin Quateand Christoph Gerber in 1986. It makes use of mechanical probe thatgathers information from surface of amaterial.3. Scanning Tunneling Microscope In 1986 , Gerd Binig and Heinrich Rohrer wonthe Nobel Prize on physics because of thisinventions. This special type of microscopeenables scientist to view andmanipulate nanoscale particles,atoms and small molecules.Nanomanufacturing It refers to scaledup, reliable andcosteffective manufacturing ofnanoscale materials, structures,devices and systems.Two fundamental approaches tomanufacturing Topdown fabrication – it trimsdown large pieces of materials intonanoscale. Dip pen lithography  it is method in whichthe tip of an atomic force microscope is “dipped”into a chemical fluid and then utilized to “write”’on a surface, like an oldfashioned ink pen ontopaper. Selfassembly – it depicts a approached whereina set of components join together to mold anorganized structure in the absence of an outsidedirection. Chemical vapor deposition – it is aprocedure wherein chemicals act in responseto form very pure, highperformance films. Nanoimprint lithography – it is a method ofgenerating nanoscale attributes by “stamping”or “printing” them onto a surface. Molecular beam epitaxy – it is one mannerfordepositing extremely controlled thin films. Rolltoroll processing – it is a highvolume practice for constructingnanoscale devices on a roll of ultrathinplastic or metal. Atomic layer epitaxy – it is a meansfor laying down oneatomthick layerson a surface.DISTINCT FEATURES OFNANOSCALENanotechnology involves operating at avery small dimension and it allows toscientists to make use of the exceptionaloptical, chemical, physical, mechanicaland biological qualities of materials ofthat small scales.1. Scale at which much biology occursBIOBARCODE ASSAY.2. Scale at which quantum effects dominate properties ofmaterials.NANOSCALE GOLD3. Nanoscalematerials have far larger surface areas than similar massesof largerscale materials.“THE EFFECT OF THE INCREASED SURFACEAREA PROVIDED BY NANOSTRUCTUREDMATERIAL”Government funding for technologyin different countries (Dayrit 2005) US National NanotechnologyInitiativeThe best known and most funded program is theNational Nanotechnology Initiative of the US.The NNI was established in2001 to coordinateUS federal nanotechnology R&D. The NNIbudget in 2008 and 2009 were $1.4bn and$1.5bn, respectively.1. European CommissionIn February 2008, the EC officially launched the EuropeanNanoelectronics Initiative Advisory Council (ENIAC)2. Japan (Nanotechnology Research Institute, underthe National Institute for Advanced IndustrialScience and Technology, AIST)3. Taiwan (Taiwan National Science and TechnologyProgram for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology)4. India (Nanotechnology Research and EducationFoundation)5. China (National Center for Nanoscience andTechnology)6. Israel (Israel National NanotechnologyInitiative)7. Australia (Australian Office ofNanotechnology)8. Canada (National Institute forNanotechnology (NINT)9. South Korea (Korea NationalNanotechnology Initiative)10. Thailand (National NanotechnologyCenter (NANOTEC)11. Malaysia (National (Malaysia)Nanotechnology Initiatives (NNI)Example of AreasAffected byNanotechnologyPossible Benefits ConcernsEnvironment Improved detectionand removal ofcontaminants. Development ofbenign industrialprocesses andmaterials High reactivity andtoxicity Pervasivedistribution in theenvironment No nanospecificEPA regulationHealth Improved medicine Ability to cross cellmembranes andtranslocate in thebody No FDAapprovalneeded forcosmetics orsupplementsEconomy Better products New jobs Redistributionof wealth Potential cost ofcleanups andhealthcare Accessibility toall income levelnanoworldokay so what is this nanoworld thatwe're talking here so it talks abouta very small world okay existing inwith us only that it's it can only beseen bycertain microscopes okay in which wecannot seeusing the naked eye so the global marketleaderfor tips for um the scanning probemicroscope it started with the scanningpro microscopeand with the atomic force microscopingwhich we're going to discuss a littlebitafter this and we're going to talk aboutum in this videothe spheres of influence ofnanotechnology so overall we're going totalk about these thingsum by the end of this batch of videos sofirst upum for the purposes of this video is asmuch as this as this first video isconcernedwe're going to talk about the originsfirst okay the originsof the nanoworld okay so we're still inour science technology and societyplaylistso let's go back to the scanningprobe microscope okay short for spmokay so this is taken from this websitehereso this is um how the scanning probemicroscope worksso we have a laser here a photodiode andsuch attackers and feedback electronicsand how and this is wherethe image is being being stored into theto the microscope itself so we weactually this is just a microscopy weusewhat we call a scanning tunnelingmicroscopein doing such so this is a branch ofmicroscopyokay that forms images on surfaces usinga physical probethat scans the specimen itself okayso this was first intro founded in wayback 1981 1982with the invention of the like i saidscanning tunneling microscopethis is an instrument for imagingservices at a veryatomic level so that is in a very verysmall levelokay which is not anymore or cannot beany moreseen by the naked eye okay so this isthe scanning probe microscopy we'regoing to talk about theafm next that's the atomic forcemicroscopy we have here the diagram thatthat explains how it works still itstilluses some laser that's why it's one typeof a scanning probe microscope or an spmwith demonstrated resolution on theorder of fractions okay on a nanometerthis is more than one thousand timesbetter than an optical diffraction limitso the information is gathered byfeeling okay or touchingthe surface with a mechanical probe sothis is our mechanicalprobe here so you are touching it okayand this is since this is our sampleokay so where is touching or feeling thethe um the surface okay with this suncatechol probe and then um again this isone type of the scanningpro microscopy sonext is we're going to deal with theorigins of the nanoscienceas we will just this as this umchapter is going to focus on so theorigin of nanosciencefirst in 1959 it was discussed by therenowned of course ourum ever famous scientist or physicistrichard feyman in his talk there'splenty of room at the bottomin which he described the possibility ofsynthesisvia direct manipulation of atoms okayagain direct manipulation of atoms thiswas againway back um in 1959so in 1960 egyptian engineer mohammedatalaand korean engineer davon kang sorry ifi mispronounced thoseat bell labs fabricated the first mosfetor ms mos rather mosfetmetal oxide semiconductor field effecttransistorso with a gate oxide thickness of 100nanometersalong with a gate length of 20 okaymicrometersso that's that's a that's a step furtherin 1962 furthermore atala and kangfabricated a nano layer basemetal semiconductor junction we callthat the ms junctionokay transistor that use gold okay thinphillipswith a thickness of 10 nanometers sothat'sthe next improvement in in sciencetechnology as you can seeum these years only differ by one or twobut you can see the the improvements umum is getting better and better as weall know science is not staticit's constantly changing and changing sofurthermore let's discussum the next part is the termnanotechnology when is this used thiswas first usedin 1974 by noriotaniguchi okay andgo back after how many six umafter what 12 years afterthat in 1968 around 12 yearsk eric drexler used the termnanotechnology okay now this timewithout the dashin his book engines of creation thecoming era of nanotechnologies so fromthe title of the bookhe used the term nanotechnology as it iswhich proposed the idea of of ananoscaleassembler a nanoscale assembler whichwould be able to build a copy of itselfand other items of arbitrary complexitywith atomic controlso in 1980 umthe emergence of nanotechnology as afieldokay occurred through convergence ofdexlerdexler's theoretical and public work soit's because of dexter thatnanotechnology is now considered asanother discipline another fieldin 1986 drexler cofounded the foresightinstituteto help increase public awareness andunderstanding of nanotechnologyWhat is nanotechnology?Nanotechnology is the manipulation of matter on a nearatomic scale to produce new structures, materials and devices. The technology promises scientific advancement in many sectors such as medicine, consumer products, energy, materials, and manufacturing. Nanotechnology refers to engineered structures, devices, and systems. Nanomaterials have a length scale between 1 and 100 nanometers. At this size, materials begin to exhibit unique properties that affect physical, chemical, and biological behavior. Researching, developing, and utilizing these properties is at the heart of new technology.What are the risks to workers?Workers within nanotechnologyrelated industries may be exposed to uniquely engineered materials. This includes materials with new sizes, shapes, and physical and chemical properties. Occupational health risks associated with manufacturing and using nanomaterials are not yet clearly understood. More research is needed to understand the impact of nanotechnology on health, and to determine appropriate exposure monitoring and control strategies. At this time, the limited evidence available suggests caution when potential exposures to free–unbound nanoparticles may occur.What is Known?Studies have indicated that low solubility nanoparticles are more toxic than larger particles on a mass for mass basis. Particle surface area and surface chemistry are strong indicators for observed responses in cell cultures and animals. Studies suggests that some nanoparticles can move from the respiratory system to other organs. Research is continuing to understand how these unique properties may lead to specific health effects.Nanotechnology involves the understanding and control of matter at the nanometerscale. The socalled nanoscale deals with dimensions between approximately 1 and 100 nanometers.A nanometer is an extremely small unit of length—a billionth (109) of a meter. Just how small is a nanometer (nm)?On the nanometerscale, materials may exhibit unusual properties. When you change the size of a particle, it can change color, for example. That’s because in nanometerscale particles, the arrangement of atoms reflects light differently. Gold can appear dark red or purple, while silver can appear yellowish or ambercolored.Nanotechnology can increase the surface area of a material. This allows more atoms to interact with other materials. An increased surface area is one of the chief reasons nanometerscale materials can be stronger, more durable, and more conductive than their largerscale (called bulk) counterparts.Nanotechnology is not microscopy. "Nanotechnology is not simply working at ever smaller dimensions," the U.S.based National Nanotechnology Initiative says. "Rather, working at the nanoscale enables scientists to utilize the unique physical, chemical, mechanical, and optical properties of materials that naturally occur at that scale."Scientists study these properties for a range of uses, from altering consumer products such as clothes to revolutionizing medicine and tackling environmental issues.Classifying NanomaterialsThere are different types of nanomaterials, and different ways to classify them.Natural nanomaterials, as the name suggests, are those that occur naturally in the world. These include particles that make up volcanic ash, smoke, and even some molecules in our bodies, such as the hemoglobin in our blood. The brilliant colors of a peacock’s feathers are the result of spacing between nanometerscale structures on their surface.Artificial nanomaterials are those that occur from objects or processes created by people. Examples include exhaust from fossil fuel burning engines and some forms of pollution. But while some of these just happen to be nanomaterials—vehicle exhaust, for instance, was not developed as one—scientists and engineers are working to create them for use in industries from manufacturing to medicine. These are called intentionally produced nanomaterials.Fullerenes and NanoparticlesOne way to classify nanomaterials is between fullerenes and nanoparticles. This classification includes both naturally occurring and artificial nanomaterials.FullerenesFullerenes are allotropes of carbon. Allotropes are different molecular forms of the same element. The most familiar carbon allotropes are probably diamond and graphite, a type of coal.Fullerenes are atomthick sheets of another carbon allotrope, graphene, rolled into spheres or tubes.The most familiar type of spherical fullerene is probably the buckminsterfullerene, nicknamed the buckyball. Buckyballs are nanometersized carbon molecules shaped like soccer balls—tightly bonded hexagons and pentagons.Buckyballs are very stable—able to withstand extreme temperatures and pressure. For this reason, buckyballs are able to exist in extremely harsh environments, such as outer space. In fact, buckyballs are the largest molecules ever discovered in space, detected around planetary nebula in 2010.Buckyballs’ cagelike structure seems to protect any atom or molecule trapped within it. Many researchers are experimenting with "impregnating" buckyballs with elements, such as helium. These impregnated buckyballs may make excellent chemical "tracers," meaning scientists could follow them as they wind through a system. For example, scientists could track water pollution kilometers away from where it entered a river, lake, or ocean.Tubular fullerenes are called nanotubes. Thanks to the way carbon atoms bond to each other, carbon nanotubes are remarkably strong and flexible. Carbon nanotubes are harder than diamond and more flexible than rubber.Carbon nanotubes hold great potential for science and technology. The U.S. space agency NASA, for example, is experimenting with carbon nanotubes to produce "blacker than black" coloration on satellites. This would reduce reflection, so data collected by the satellite are not "polluted" by light.NanoparticlesNanoparticles can include carbon, like fullerenes, as well as nanometerscale versions of many other elements, such as gold, silicon, and titanium. Quantum dots, a type of nanoparticle, are semiconductors made of different elements, including cadmium and sulfur. Quantum dots have unusual fluorescent capabilities. Scientists and engineers have experimented with using quantum dots in everything from photovoltaic cells (used for solar power) to fabric dye.The properties of nanoparticles have been important in the study of nanomedicine. One promising development in nanomedicine is the use of gold nanoparticles to fight lymphoma, a type of cancer that attacks cholesterol cells. Researchers have developed a nanoparticle that looks like a cholesterol cell, but with gold at its core. When this nanoparticle attaches to a lymphoma cell, it prevents the lymphoma from "feeding" off actual cholesterol cells, starving it to death.Intentionally Produced NanomaterialsThere are four main types of intentionally produced nanomaterials: carbonbased, metalbased, dendrimers, and nanocomposites.Carbonbased nanomaterialsCarbonbased nanomaterials are intentionally produced fullerenes. These include carbon nanotubes and buckyballs.Carbon nanotubes are often produced using a process called carbon assisted vapor deposition. (This is the process NASA uses to create its "blacker than black" satellite color.) In this process, scientists establish a substrate, or base material, where the nanotubes grow. Silicon is a common substrate. Then, a catalyst helps the chemical reaction that grows the nanotubes. Iron is a common catalyst. Finally, the process requires a heated gas, blown over the substrate and catalyst. The gas contains the carbon that grows into nanotubes.Metalbased nanomaterialsMetalbased nanomaterials include gold nanoparticles and quantum dots.Quantum dots are synthesized using different methods. In one method, small crystals of two different elements are formed under high temperatures. By controlling the temperature and other conditions, the size of the nanometerscale crystals can be carefully controlled. The size is what determines the fluorescent color. These nanocrystals are quantum dots—tiny semiconductors—suspended in a solution.DendrimersDendrimers are complex nanoparticles built from linked, branched units. Each dendrimer has three sections: a core, an inner shell, and an outer shell. In addition, each dendrimer has branched ends. Each part of a dendrimer—its core, inner shell, outer shell, and branched ends—can be designed to perform a specific chemical function.Dendrimers can be fabricated either from the core outward (divergent method) or from the outer shell inward (convergent method).Like buckyballs and some other nanomaterials, dendrimers have strong, cagelike cavities in their structure. Scientists and researchers are experimenting with dendrimers as multifunctional drugdelivery methods. A single dendrimer, for example, may deliver a drug to a specific cell, and also trace that drug's impact on the surrounding tissue.NanocompositesNanocomposites combine nanomaterials with other nanomaterials, or with larger, bulk materials. There are three main types of nanocomposites: nanoceramic matrix composites (NCMCs), metal matrix composites (MMCs), and polymer matrix composites (PMCs).NCMCs, sometimes called nanoclays, are often used to coat packing materials. They strengthen the material’s heat resistance and flameretardant properties.MMCs are stronger and lighter than bulk metals. MMCs may be used to reduce heat in computer "server farms" or build vehicles light enough to airlift.Industrial plastics are often composed of PMCs. One promising area of nanomedical research is creating PMC "tissue scaffolding." Tissue scaffolds are nanostructures that provide a frame around which tissue, such as an organ or skin, can be grown. This could revolutionize the treatment of burn injuries and organ loss.Nanomanufacturing Nanotech equipmentScientists and engineers working at the nanometerscale need special microscopes. The atomic force microscope (AFM) and the scanning tunneling microscope (STM) are essential in the study of nanotechnology. These powerful tools allow scientists and engineers to see and manipulate individual atoms.AFMs use a very small probe—a cantilever with a tiny tip—to scan a nanostructure. The tip is only nanometers in diameter. As the tip is brought close to the sample being examined, the cantilever moves because of the atomic forces between the tip and the surface of the sample.With STMs, an electronic signal is passed between the microscope’s tip—formed by one single atom—and the surface of the sample being scanned. The tip moves up and down to keep both the signal and the distance from the sample constant.AFMs and STMs allow researchers to create an image of an individual atom or molecule that looks just like a topographic map. Using an AFM’s or STM’s sensitive tip, researchers can also pick up and move atoms and molecules like tiny building blocks.NanomanufacturingThere are two ways to build materials on the nanometerscale: topdown or bottomup.Topdown nanomanufacturing involves carving bulk materials to create features with nanometerscale dimensions. For decades, the process used to produce computer chips has been topdown. Producers work to increase the speed and efficiency of each "generation" of microchip. The manufacture of graphenebased (as opposed to siliconbased) microchips may revolutionize the industry.Bottomup nanomanufacturing builds products atombyatom or moleculebymolecule. Experimenting with quantum dots and other nanomaterials, tech companies are starting to develop transistors and other electronic devices using individual molecules. These atomthick transistors may mark the future development of the microchip industry.History of NanotechnologyU.S. physicist Richard Feynman is considered the father of nanotechnology. He introduced the ideas and concepts behind nanotech in a 1959 talk titled "There’s Plenty of Room at the Bottom." Feynman did not use the term "nanotechnology," but described a process in which scientists would be able to manipulate and control individual atoms and molecules.Modern nanotechnology truly began in 1981, when the scanning tunneling microscope allowed scientists and engineers to see and manipulate individual atoms. IBM scientists Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer won the 1986 Nobel Prize in Physics for inventing the scanning tunneling microscope. The Binnig and Rohrer Nanotechnology Center in Zurich, Switzerland, continues to build on the work of these pioneering scientists by conducting research and developing new applications for nanotechnology.The iconic example of the development of nanotechnology was an effort led by Don Eigler at IBM to spell out "IBM" using 35 individual atoms of xenon.By the end of the 20th century, many companies and governments were investing in nanotechnology. Major nanotech discoveries, such as carbon nanotubes, were made throughout the 1990s. By the early 2000s, nanomaterials were being used in consumer products from sports equipment to digital cameras.Modern nanotechnology may be quite new, but nanometerscale materials have been used for centuries. As early as the 4th century, Roman artists had discovered that adding gold and silver to glass created a startling effect: The glass appeared slate green when lit from the outside, but glowed red when lit from within. Nanoparticles of gold and silver were suspended in the glass solution, coloring it. The most famous surviving example of this technique is a ceremonial vessel, the Lycurgus Cup.Artists from China, western Asia, and Europe were also using nanoparticles of silver and copper, this time in pottery glazes. This gave a distinctive luster to ceramics such as tiles and bowls.In 2006, modern microscopy revealed the technology of Damascus steel, a metal used in South Asia and the Middle East until the technique was lost in the 18th century—carbon nanotubes. Swords made with Damascus steel are legendary for their strength, durability, and ability to maintain a very sharp edge.One of the most wellknown examples of premodern use of nanomaterials is in European medieval stainedglass windows. Like the Romans before them, medieval artisans knew that by putting varying, small amounts of gold and silver in glass, they could produce bright reds and yellows.Nanotech and the EnvironmentMany governments, scientists, and engineers are researching the potential of nanotechnology to bring affordable, hightech, and energyefficient products to millions of people around the world. Nanotechnology has improved the design of products such as light bulbs, paints, computer screens, and fuels.EnergyNanotechnology is helping inform the development of alternative energy sources, such as solar and wind power. Solar cells, for instance, turn sunlight into electric currents. Nanotechnology could change the way solar cells are used, making them more efficient and affordable.Solar cells, also called photovoltaic cells, are usually assembled as a series of large, flat panels. These solar panels are big and bulky. They are also expensive and often difficult to install. Using nanotechnology, scientists and engineers have been able to experiment with printlike development processes, which reduces manufacturing costs. Some experimental solar panels have been made in flexible rolls rather than rigid panels. In the future, panels might even be "painted" with photovoltaic technology.The bulky, heavy blades on wind turbines may also benefit from nanotech. An epoxy containing carbon nanotubes is being used to make turbine blades that are longer, stronger, and lighter. Other nanotech innovations may include a coating to reduce ice buildup.Nanotech is already helping increase the energyefficiency of products. One of the United Kingdom's biggest bus operators, for instance, has been using a nanofuel additive for close to a decade. Engineers mix a tiny amount of the additive with diesel fuel, and the ceriumoxide nanoparticles help the fuel burn more cleanly and efficiently. Use of the additive has achieved a 5 percent annual reduction in fuel consumption and emissions.WaterAccess to clean water has become a problem in many parts of the world. Nanomaterials may be a tiny solution to this large problem.Nanomaterials can strip water of toxic metals and organic molecules. For example, researchers have discovered that nanometerscale specks of rust are magnetic, which can help remove dangerous chemicals from water. Other engineers are developing nanostructured filters that can remove viruses from water.Researchers are also experimenting with using nanotechnology to safely, affordably, and efficiently turn saltwater into freshwater, a process called desalination. In one experiment, nanosized electrodes are being used to reduce the cost and energy requirements of removing salts from water.Oil Spill CleanUpScientists and engineers are experimenting with nanotechnology to help isolate and remove oil spilled from offshore oil platforms and container ships.One method uses nanoparticles' unique magnetic properties to help isolate oil. Oil itself is not magnetic, but when mixed with waterresistant iron nanoparticles, it can be magnetically separated from seawater. The nanoparticles can later be removed so the oil can be used.Another method involves the use of a nanofabric "towel" woven from nanowires. These towels can absorb 20 times their weight in oil.Nanotech and PeopleHundreds of consumer products are already benefiting from nanotechnology. You may be wearing, eating, or breathing nanoparticles right now! ClothingScientists and engineers are using nanotechnology to enhance clothing. By coating fabrics with a thin layer of zinc oxide nanoparticles, for instance, manufacturers can create clothes that give better protection from ultraviolet (UV) radiation, like that from the sun. Some clothes have nanoparticles in the form of little hairs or whiskers that help repel water and other materials, making fabric more stainresistant.Some researchers are experimenting with nanotechnology for "personal climate control." Nanofiber jackets allow the wearer to control the jacket’s warmth using a small set of batteries.CosmeticsMany cosmetic products contain nanoparticles. Nanometerscale materials in these products provide greater clarity, coverage, cleansing, or absorption. For instance, the nanoparticles used in sunscreen (titanium dioxide and zinc oxide) provide reliable, extensive protection from harmful UV radiation. These nanomaterials offer better light reflection for a longer time period.Nanotechnology may also provide better "delivery systems" for cosmetic ingredients. Nanomaterials may be able to penetrate a skin’s cell membranes to augment the cell’s features, such as elasticity or moisture.AthleticsNanotech is revolutionizing the sports world. Nanometerscale additives can make sporting equipment lightweight, stiff, and durable.Carbon nanotubes, for example, are used to make bicycle frames and tennis rackets lighter, thinner, and more resilient. Nanotubes give golf clubs and hockey sticks a more powerful and accurate drive.Carbon nanotubes embedded in epoxy coatings make kayaks faster and more stable in the water. A similar epoxy keeps tennis balls bouncy.FoodThe food industry is using nanomaterials in both the packaging and agricultural sectors. Clay nanocomposites provide an impenetrable barrier to gases such as oxygen or carbon dioxide in lightweight bottles, cartons, and packaging films. Silver nanoparticles, embedded in the plastic of storage containers, kill bacteria.Engineers and chemists use nanotechnology to adapt the texture and flavor of foods. Nanomaterials’ greater surface area may improve the "spreadability" of foods such as mayonnaise, for instance. Nanotech engineers have isolated and studied the way our taste buds perceive flavor. By targeting individual cells on a taste bud, nanomaterials can enhance the sweetness or saltiness of a particular food. A chemical nicknamed "bitter blocker," for instance, can trick the tongue into not tasting the naturally bitter taste of many foods.ElectronicsNanotechnology has revolutionized the realm of electronics. It provides faster and more portable systems that can manage and store larger and larger amounts of data.Nanotech has improved display screens on electronic devices. This involves reducing power consumption while decreasing the weight and thickness of the screens.Nanotechnology has allowed glass to be more consumer friendly. One glass uses nanomaterials to clean itself, for example. As ultraviolet light hits the glass, nanoparticles become energized and begin to break down and loosen organic molecules—dirt—on the glass. Rain cleanly washes the dirt away. Similar technology could be applied to touchscreen devices to resist sweat.NanomedicineNanotechnology can help medical tools and procedures be more personalized, portable, cheaper, safer, and easier to administer. Silver nanoparticles incorporated into bandages, for example, smother and kill harmful microbes. This can be especially useful in healing burns.Nanotech is also furthering advances in disease treatments. Researchers are developing ways to use nanoparticles to deliver medications directly to specific cells. This is especially promising for the treatment of cancer, because chemotherapy and radiation treatments can damage healthy as well as diseased tissue.Dendrimers, nanomaterials with multiple branches, may improve the speed and efficiency of drug delivery. Researchers have experimented with dendrimers that deliver drugs that slow the spread of cerebral palsylike symptoms in rabbits, for example.The list goes on. Fullerenes can be manipulated to have antiinflammatory properties to slow or even stop allergic reactions. Nanomaterials may reduce bleeding and speed coagulation. Diagnostic testing and imaging can be improved by arranging nanoparticles to detect and attach themselves to specific proteins or diseased cells.Grey Goo and Other ConcernsUnregulated pursuit of nanotechnology is controversial. In 1986, Eric Drexler wrote a book called Engines of Creation, which painted a vision of the future of nanotech, but also warned of the dangers. The book’s apocalyptic vision included selfreplicating nanometerscale robots that malfunctioned, duplicating themselves a trillion times over. These nanobots rapidly consumed the entire world as they pulled carbon from the environment to replicate themselves.Drexler’s vision is nicknamed the "grey goo" scenario. Many experts think concerns like "grey goo" are probably premature. Even so, many scientists and engineers continue to voice their concerns about nanotech’s future.Nanopollution is the nickname given to the waste created by the manufacturing of nanomaterials. Some forms of nanopollution are toxic, and environmentalists are concerned about the bioaccumulation, or buildup, of these toxic nanomaterials in microbes, plants, and animals.Nanotoxicology is the study of toxic nanoparticles, particularly their interaction with the human body. Nanotoxicology is an important research field, as nanomaterials can enter the body both intentionally and unintentionally. “Research is needed,” writes the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, “to determine whether exposure to manufactured nanomaterials can lead to adverse effects to the heart, lungs, skin; alter reproductive performance; or contribute to cancer.”Another concern about nanotechnology is the price. Nanotech is an expensive area of research, and largely confined to developed nations with strong infrastructure. Many social scientists are concerned that underdeveloped countries will fall further behind as they cannot afford to develop a nanotechnology industry.Nanotechnology, often shortened to nanotech, is the use of matter on atomic, molecular, and supramolecular scales for industrial purposes. The earliest, widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products, also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology. A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which defined nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers (nm). This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantumrealm scale, and so the definition shifted from a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter which occur below the given size threshold. It is therefore common to see the plural form "nanotechnologies" as well as "nanoscale technologies" to refer to the broad range of research and applications whose common trait is size.Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally broad, including fields of science as diverse as surface science, organic chemistry, molecular biology, semiconductor physics, energy storage, engineering, microfabrication, and molecular engineering. The associated research and applications are equally diverse, ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to completely new approaches based upon molecular selfassembly, from developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the atomic scale.Scientists currently debate the future implications of nanotechnology. Nanotechnology may be able to create many new materials and devices with a vast range of applications, such as in nanomedicine, nanoelectronics, biomaterials energy production, and consumer products. On the other hand, nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as any new technology, including concerns about the toxicity and environmental impact of nanomaterials, and their potential effects on global economics, as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios. These concerns have led to a debate among advocacy groups and governments on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.OriginsThe concepts that seeded nanotechnology were first discussed in 1959 by renowned physicist Richard Feynman in his talk There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom, in which he described the possibility of synthesis via direct manipulation of atoms.Comparison of nanomaterials sizesThe term "nanotechnology" was first used by Norio Taniguchi in 1974, though it was not widely known. Inspired by Feynman's concepts, K. Eric Drexler used the term "nanotechnology" in his 1986 book Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology, which proposed the idea of a nanoscale "assembler" which would be able to build a copy of itself and of other items of arbitrary complexity with atomic control. Also in 1986, Drexler cofounded The Foresight Institute (with which he is no longer affiliated) to help increase public awareness and understanding of nanotechnology concepts and implications.The emergence of nanotechnology as a field in the 1980s occurred through convergence of Drexler's theoretical and public work, which developed and popularized a conceptual framework for nanotechnology, and highvisibility experimental advances that drew additional widescale attention to the prospects of atomic control of matter. In the 1980s, two major breakthroughs sparked the growth of nanotechnology in the modern era. First, the invention of the scanning tunneling microscope in 1981 which provided unprecedented visualization of individual atoms and bonds, and was successfully used to manipulate individual atoms in 1989. The microscope's developers Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer at IBM Zurich Research Laboratory received a Nobel Prize in Physics in 1986. Binnig, Quate and Gerber also invented the analogous atomic force microscope that year.Buckminsterfullerene C60, also known as the buckyball, is a representative member of the carbon structures known as fullerenes. Members of the fullerene family are a major subject of research falling under the nanotechnology umbrella.Second, fullerenes were discovered in 1985 by Harry Kroto, Richard Smalley, and Robert Curl, who together won the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. C60 was not initially described as nanotechnology; the term was used regarding subsequent work with related carbon nanotubes (sometimes called graphene tubes or Bucky tubes) which suggested potential applications for nanoscale electronics and devices. The discovery of carbon nanotubes is largely attributed to Sumio Iijima of NEC in 1991, for which Iijima won the inaugural 2008 Kavli Prize in Nanoscience.In the early 2000s, the field garnered increased scientific, political, and commercial attention that led to both controversy and progress. Controversies emerged regarding the definitions and potential implications of nanotechnologies, exemplified by the Royal Society's report on nanotechnology. Challenges were raised regarding the feasibility of applications envisioned by advocates of molecular nanotechnology, which culminated in a public debate between Drexler and Smalley in 2001 and 2003.Meanwhile, commercialization of products based on advancements in nanoscale technologies began emerging. These products are limited to bulk applications of nanomaterials and do not involve atomic control of matter. Some examples include the Silver Nano platform for using silver nanoparticles as an antibacterial agent, nanoparticlebased transparent sunscreens, carbon fiber strengthening using silica nanoparticles, and carbon nanotubes for stainresistant textiles.Governments moved to promote and fund research into nanotechnology, such as in the U.S. with the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which formalized a sizebased definition of nanotechnology and established funding for research on the nanoscale, and in Europe via the European Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development.By the mid2000s new and serious scientific attention began to flourish. Projects emerged to produce nanotechnology roadmaps which center on atomically precise manipulation of matter and discuss existing and projected capabilities, goals, and applications.Fundamental conceptsNanotechnology is the engineering of functional systems at the molecular scale. This covers both current work and concepts that are more advanced. In its original sense, nanotechnology refers to the projected ability to construct items from the bottom up, using techniques and tools being developed today to make complete, highperformance products.One nanometer (nm) is one billionth, or 10−9, of a meter. By comparison, typical carboncarbon bond lengths, or the spacing between these atoms in a molecule, are in the range 0.12–0.15 nm, and a DNA doublehelix has a diameter around 2 nm. On the other hand, the smallest cellular lifeforms, the bacteria of the genus Mycoplasma, are around 200 nm in length. By convention, nanotechnology is taken as the scale range 1 to 100 nm following the definition used by the National Nanotechnology Initiative in the US. The lower limit is set by the size of atoms (hydrogen has the smallest atoms, which are approximately a quarter of a nm kinetic diameter) since nanotechnology must build its devices from atoms and molecules. The upper limit is more or less arbitrary but is around the size below which the phenomena not observed in larger structures start to become apparent and can be made use of in the nano device. These new phenomena make nanotechnology distinct from devices which are merely miniaturised versions of an equivalent macroscopic device; such devices are on a larger scale and come under the description of microtechnology.To put that scale in another context, the comparative size of a nanometer to a meter is the same as that of a marble to the size of the earth. Or another way of putting it: a nanometer is the amount an average man's beard grows in the time it takes him to raise the razor to his face.Two main approaches are used in nanotechnology. In the "bottomup" approach, materials and devices are built from molecular components which assemble themselves chemically by principles of molecular recognition. In the "topdown" approach, nanoobjects are constructed from larger entities without atomiclevel control.Areas of physics such as nanoelectronics, nanomechanics, nanophotonics and nanoionics have evolved during the last few decades to provide a basic scientific foundation of nanotechnology.Larger to smaller: a materials perspectiveImage of reconstruction on a clean Gold(100) surface, as visualized using scanning tunneling microscopy. The positions of the individual atoms composing the surface are visible.Main article: NanomaterialsSeveral phenomena become pronounced as the size of the system decreases. These include statistical mechanical effects, as well as quantum mechanical effects, for example the "quantum size effect" where the electronic properties of solids are altered with great reductions in particle size. This effect does not come into play by going from macro to micro dimensions. However, quantum effects can become significant when the nanometer size range is reached, typically at distances of 100 nanometers or less, the socalled quantum realm. Additionally, a number of physical (mechanical, electrical, optical, etc.) properties change when compared to macroscopic systems. One example is the increase in surface area to volume ratio altering mechanical, thermal and catalytic properties of materials. Diffusion and reactions at nanoscale, nanostructures materials and nanodevices with fast ion transport are generally referred to nanoionics. Mechanical properties of nanosystems are of interest in the nanomechanics research. The catalytic activity of nanomaterials also opens potential risks in their interaction with biomaterials.Materials reduced to the nanoscale can show different properties compared to what they exhibit on a macroscale, enabling unique applications. For instance, opaque substances can become transparent (copper); stable materials can turn combustible (aluminium); insoluble materials may become soluble (gold). A material such as gold, which is chemically inert at normal scales, can serve as a potent chemical catalyst at nanoscales. Much of the fascination with nanotechnology stems from these quantum and surface phenomena that matter exhibits at the nanoscale.Simple to complex: a molecular perspectiveMain article: Molecular selfassemblyModern synthetic chemistry has reached the point where it is possible to prepare small molecules to almost any structure. These methods are used today to manufacture a wide variety of useful chemicals such as pharmaceuticals or commercial polymers. This ability raises the question of extending this kind of control to the nextlarger level, seeking methods to assemble these single molecules into supramolecular assemblies consisting of many molecules arranged in a well defined manner.These approaches utilize the concepts of molecular selfassembly and/or supramolecular chemistry to automatically arrange themselves into some useful conformation through a bottomup approach. The concept of molecular recognition is especially important: molecules can be designed so that a specific configuration or arrangement is favored due to noncovalent intermolecular forces. The Watson–Crick basepairing rules are a direct result of this, as is the specificity of an enzyme being targeted to a single substrate, or the specific folding of the protein itself. Thus, two or more components can be designed to be complementary and mutually attractive so that they make a more complex and useful whole.Such bottomup approaches should be capable of producing devices in parallel and be much cheaper than topdown methods, but could potentially be overwhelmed as the size and complexity of the desired assembly increases. Most useful structures require complex and thermodynamically unlikely arrangements of atoms. Nevertheless, there are many examples of selfassembly based on molecular recognition in biology, most notably Watson–Crick basepairing and enzymesubstrate interactions. The challenge for nanotechnology is whether these principles can be used to engineer new constructs in addition to natural ones.Molecular nanotechnology: a longterm viewMain article: Molecular nanotechnologyMolecular nanotechnology, sometimes called molecular manufacturing, describes engineered nanosystems (nanoscale machines) operating on the molecular scale. Molecular nanotechnology is especially associated with the molecular assembler, a machine that can produce a desired structure or device atombyatom using the principles of mechanosynthesis. Manufacturing in the context of productive nanosystems is not related to, and should be clearly distinguished from, the conventional technologies used to manufacture nanomaterials such as carbon nanotubes and nanoparticles.When the term "nanotechnology" was independently coined and popularized by Eric Drexler (who at the time was unaware of an earlier usage by Norio Taniguchi) it referred to a future manufacturing technology based on molecular machine systems. The premise was that molecularscale biological analogies of traditional machine components demonstrated molecular machines were possible: by the countless examples found in biology, it is known that sophisticated, stochastically optimized biological machines can be produced.It is hoped that developments in nanotechnology will make possible their construction by some other means, perhaps using biomimetic principles. However, Drexler and other researchers have proposed that advanced nanotechnology, although perhaps initially implemented by biomimetic means, ultimately could be based on mechanical engineering principles, namely, a manufacturing technology based on the mechanical functionality of these components (such as gears, bearings, motors, and structural members) that would enable programmable, positional assembly to atomic specification. The physics and engineering performance of exemplar designs were analyzed in Drexler's book Nanosystems: Molecular Machinery, Manufacturing, and Computation.In general it is very difficult to assemble devices on the atomic scale, as one has to position atoms on other atoms of comparable size and stickiness. Another view, put forth by Carlo Montemagno, is that future nanosystems will be hybrids of silicon technology and biological molecular machines. Richard Smalley argued that mechanosynthesis are impossible due to the difficulties in mechanically manipulating individual molecules.This led to an exchange of letters in the ACS publication Chemical & Engineering News in 2003. Though biology clearly demonstrates that molecular machine systems are possible, nonbiological molecular machines are today only in their infancy. Leaders in research on nonbiological molecular machines are Alex Zettl and his colleagues at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratories and UC Berkeley. They have constructed at least three distinct molecular devices whose motion is controlled from the desktop with changing voltage: a nanotube nanomotor, a molecular actuator, and a nanoelectromechanical relaxation oscillator. See nanotube nanomotor for more examples.An experiment indicating that positional molecular assembly is possible was performed by Ho and Lee at Cornell University in 1999. They used a scanning tunneling microscope to move an individual carbon monoxide molecule (CO) to an individual iron atom (Fe) sitting on a flat silver crystal, and chemically bound the CO to the Fe by applying a voltage.Current researchGraphical representation of a rotaxane, useful as a molecular switchThis DNA tetrahedron is an artificially designed nanostructure of the type made in the field of DNA nanotechnology. Each edge of the tetrahedron is a 20 base pair DNA double helix, and each vertex is a threearm junction.Rotating view of C60, one kind of fullereneThis device transfers energy from nanothin layers of quantum wells to nanocrystals above them, causing the nanocrystals to emit visible light.NanomaterialsThe nanomaterials field includes subfields which develop or study materials having unique properties arising from their nanoscale dimensions.Interface and colloid science has given rise to many materials which may be useful in nanotechnology, such as carbon nanotubes and other fullerenes, and various nanoparticles and nanorods. Nanomaterials with fast ion transport are related also to nanoionics and nanoelectronics.Nanoscale materials can also be used for bulk applications; most present commercial applications of nanotechnology are of this flavor.Progress has been made in using these materials for medical applications; see Nanomedicine.Nanoscale materials such as nanopillars are sometimes used in solar cells which combats the cost of traditional silicon solar cells.Development of applications incorporating semiconductor nanoparticles to be used in the next generation of products, such as display technology, lighting, solar cells and biological imaging; see quantum dots.Recent application of nanomaterials include a range of biomedical applications, such as tissue engineering, drug delivery, antibacterials and biosensors.Bottomup approachesThese seek to arrange smaller components into more complex assemblies.DNA nanotechnology utilizes the specificity of Watson–Crick basepairing to construct welldefined structures out of DNA and other nucleic acids.Approaches from the field of "classical" chemical synthesis (Inorganic and organic synthesis) also aim at designing molecules with welldefined shape (e.g. bispeptides).More generally, molecular selfassembly seeks to use concepts of supramolecular chemistry, and molecular recognition in particular, to cause singlemolecule components to automatically arrange themselves into some useful conformation.Atomic force microscope tips can be used as a nanoscale "write head" to deposit a chemical upon a surface in a desired pattern in a process called dip pen nanolithography. This technique fits into the larger subfield of nanolithography.Molecular Beam Epitaxy allows for bottom up assemblies of materials, most notably semiconductor materials commonly used in chip and computing applications, stacks, gating, and nanowire lasers.Topdown approachesThese seek to create smaller devices by using larger ones to direct their assembly.Many technologies that descended from conventional solidstate silicon methods for fabricating microprocessors are now capable of creating features smaller than 100 nm, falling under the definition of nanotechnology. Giant magnetoresistancebased hard drives already on the market fit this description, as do atomic layer deposition (ALD) techniques. Peter Grünberg and Albert Fert received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2007 for their discovery of Giant magnetoresistance and contributions to the field of spintronics.Solidstate techniques can also be used to create devices known as nanoelectromechanical systems or NEMS, which are related to microelectromechanical systems or MEMS.Focused ion beams can directly remove material, or even deposit material when suitable precursor gasses are applied at the same time. For example, this technique is used routinely to create sub100 nm sections of material for analysis in Transmission electron microscopy.Atomic force microscope tips can be used as a nanoscale "write head" to deposit a resist, which is then followed by an etching process to remove material in a topdown method.Functional approachesThese seek to develop components of a desired functionality without regard to how they might be assembled.Magnetic assembly for the synthesis of anisotropic superparamagnetic materials such as recently presented magnetic nano chains.Molecular scale electronics seeks to develop molecules with useful electronic properties. These could then be used as singlemolecule components in a nanoelectronic device. For an example see rotaxane.Synthetic chemical methods can also be used to create synthetic molecular motors, such as in a socalled nanocar.Biomimetic approachesBionics or biomimicry seeks to apply biological methods and systems found in nature, to the study and design of engineering systems and modern technology. Biomineralization is one example of the systems studied.Bionanotechnology is the use of biomolecules for applications in nanotechnology, including use of viruses and lipid assemblies. Nanocellulose, a nanopolymer often used for bulkscale applications, is a green material that has gained interests in nanotechnology and green chemistry owing to its useful properties such as abundance, high aspect ratio, good mechanical properties, renewability, and biocompatibility.SpeculativeThese subfields seek to anticipate what inventions nanotechnology might yield, or attempt to propose an agenda along which inquiry might progress. These often take a bigpicture view of nanotechnology, with more emphasis on its societal implications than the details of how such inventions could actually be created.Molecular nanotechnology is a proposed approach which involves manipulating single molecules in finely controlled, deterministic ways. This is more theoretical than the other subfields, and many of its proposed techniques are beyond current capabilities.Nanorobotics centers on selfsufficient machines of some functionality operating at the nanoscale. There are hopes for applying nanorobots in medicine. Nevertheless, progress on innovative materials and methodologies has been demonstrated with some patents granted about new nanomanufacturing devices for future commercial applications, which also progressively helps in the development towards nanorobots with the use of embedded nanobioelectronics concepts.Productive nanosystems are "systems of nanosystems" which will be complex nanosystems that produce atomically precise parts for other nanosystems, not necessarily using novel nanoscaleemergent properties, but wellunderstood fundamentals of manufacturing. Because of the discrete (i.e. atomic) nature of matter and the possibility of exponential growth, this stage is seen as the basis of another industrial revolution. Mihail Roco, one of the architects of the USA's National Nanotechnology Initiative, has proposed four states of nanotechnology that seem to parallel the technical progress of the Industrial Revolution, progressing from passive nanostructures to active nanodevices to complex nanomachines and ultimately to productive nanosystems.Programmable matter seeks to design materials whose properties can be easily, reversibly and externally controlled though a fusion of information science and materials science.Due to the popularity and media exposure of the term nanotechnology, the words picotechnology and femtotechnology have been coined in analogy to it, although these are only used rarely and informally.Dimensionality in nanomaterialsNanomaterials can be classified in 0D, 1D, 2D and 3D nanomaterials. The dimensionality play a major role in determining the characteristic of nanomaterials including physical, chemical and biological characteristics. With the decrease in dimensionality, an increase in surfacetovolume ratio is observed. This indicate that smaller dimensional nanomaterials have higher surface area compared to 3D nanomaterials. Recently, two dimensional (2D) nanomaterials are extensively investigated for electronic, biomedical, drug delivery and biosensor applications.Tools and techniquesTypical AFM setup. A microfabricated cantilever with a sharp tip is deflected by features on a sample surface, much like in a phonograph but on a much smaller scale. A laser beam reflects off the backside of the cantilever into a set of photodetectors, allowing the deflection to be measured and assembled into an image of the surface.There are several important modern developments. The atomic force microscope (AFM) and the Scanning Tunneling Microscope (STM) are two early versions of scanning probes that launched nanotechnology. There are other types of scanning probe microscopy. Although conceptually similar to the scanning confocal microscope developed by Marvin Minsky in 1961 and the scanning acoustic microscope (SAM) developed by Calvin Quate and coworkers in the 1970s, newer scanning probe microscopes have much higher resolution, since they are not limited by the wavelength of sound or light.The tip of a scanning probe can also be used to manipulate nanostructures (a process called positional assembly). Featureoriented scanning methodology may be a promising way to implement these nanomanipulations in automatic mode. However, this is still a slow process because of low scanning velocity of the microscope.Various techniques of nanolithography such as optical lithography, Xray lithography, dip pen nanolithography, electron beam lithography or nanoimprint lithography were also developed. Lithography is a topdown fabrication technique where a bulk material is reduced in size to nanoscale pattern.Another group of nanotechnological techniques include those used for fabrication of nanotubes and nanowires, those used in semiconductor fabrication such as deep ultraviolet lithography, electron beam lithography, focused ion beam machining, nanoimprint lithography, atomic layer deposition, and molecular vapor deposition, and further including molecular selfassembly techniques such as those employing diblock copolymers. The precursors of these techniques preceded the nanotech era, and are extensions in the development of scientific advancements rather than techniques which were devised with the sole purpose of creating nanotechnology and which were results of nanotechnology research.The topdown approach anticipates nanodevices that must be built piece by piece in stages, much as manufactured items are made. Scanning probe microscopy is an important technique both for characterization and synthesis of nanomaterials. Atomic force microscopes and scanning tunneling microscopes can be used to look at surfaces and to move atoms around. By designing different tips for these microscopes, they can be used for carving out structures on surfaces and to help guide selfassembling structures. By using, for example, featureoriented scanning approach, atoms or molecules can be moved around on a surface with scanning probe microscopy techniques. At present, it is expensive and timeconsuming for mass production but very suitable for laboratory experimentation.In contrast, bottomup techniques build or grow larger structures atom by atom or molecule by molecule. These techniques include chemical synthesis, selfassembly and positional assembly. Dual polarisation interferometry is one tool suitable for characterisation of self assembled thin films. Another variation of the bottomup approach is molecular beam epitaxy or MBE. Researchers at Bell Telephone Laboratories like John R. Arthur. Alfred Y. Cho, and Art C. Gossard developed and implemented MBE as a research tool in the late 1960s and 1970s. Samples made by MBE were key to the discovery of the fractional quantum Hall effect for which the 1998 Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded. MBE allows scientists to lay down atomically precise layers of atoms and, in the process, build up complex structures. Important for research on semiconductors, MBE is also widely used to make samples and devices for the newly emerging field of spintronics.However, new therapeutic products, based on responsive nanomaterials, such as the ultradeformable, stresssensitive Transfersome vesicles, are under development and already approved for human use in some countries.ApplicationsOne of the major applications of nanotechnology is in the area of nanoelectronics with MOSFET's being made of small nanowires ≈10 nm in length. Here is a simulation of such a nanowire.0:34Nanostructures provide this surface with superhydrophobicity, which lets water droplets roll down the inclined plane.Nanowire lasers for ultrafast transmission of information in light pulsesMain article: List of nanotechnology applicationsAs of August 21, 2008, the Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies estimates that over 800 manufactureridentified nanotech products are publicly available, with new ones hitting the market at a pace of 3–4 per week. The project lists all of the products in a publicly accessible online database. Most applications are limited to the use of "firstgeneration" passive nanomaterials which includes titanium dioxide in sunscreen, cosmetics, surface coatings, and some food products; Carbon allotropes used to produce gecko tape; silver in food packaging, clothing, disinfectants and household appliances; zinc oxide in sunscreens and cosmetics, surface coatings, paints and outdoor furniture varnishes; and cerium oxide as a fuel catalyst.Further applications allow tennis balls to last longer, golf balls to fly straighter, and even bowling balls to become more durable and have a harder surface. Trousers and socks have been infused with nanotechnology so that they will last longer and keep people cool in the summer. Bandages are being infused with silver nanoparticles to heal cuts faster. Video game consoles and personal computers may become cheaper, faster, and contain more memory thanks to nanotechnology. Also, to build structures for on chip computing with light, for example on chip optical quantum information processing, and picosecond transmission of information.Nanotechnology may have the ability to make existing medical applications cheaper and easier to use in places like the general practitioners' offices and at homes. Cars are being manufactured using nanomaterials in such ways that car parts require fewer metals during manufacturing and less fuel to operate in the future.Scientists are now turning to nanotechnology in an attempt to develop diesel engines with cleaner exhaust fumes. Platinum is currently used as the diesel engine catalyst in these engines. The catalyst is what cleans the exhaust fume particles. First, a reduction catalyst is employed to take nitrogen atoms from NOx molecules in order to free oxygen. Next the oxidation catalyst oxidizes the hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide to form carbon dioxide and water. Platinum is used in both the reduction and the oxidation catalysts. Using platinum though, is inefficient in that it is expensive and unsustainable. Danish company InnovationsFonden invested DKK 15 million in a search for new catalyst substitutes using nanotechnology. The goal of the project, launched in the autumn of 2014, is to maximize surface area and minimize the amount of material required. Objects tend to minimize their surface energy; two drops of water, for example, will join to form one drop and decrease surface area. If the catalyst's surface area that is exposed to the exhaust fumes is maximized, efficiency of the catalyst is maximized. The team working on this project aims to create nanoparticles that will not merge. Every time the surface is optimized, material is saved. Thus, creating these nanoparticles will increase the effectiveness of the resulting diesel engine catalyst—in turn leading to cleaner exhaust fumes—and will decrease cost. If successful, the team hopes to reduce platinum use by 25%.Nanotechnology also has a prominent role in the fast developing field of Tissue Engineering. When designing scaffolds, researchers attempt to mimic the nanoscale features of a cell's microenvironment to direct its differentiation down a suitable lineage. For example, when creating scaffolds to support the growth of bone, researchers may mimic osteoclast resorption pits.Researchers have successfully used DNA origamibased nanobots capable of carrying out logic functions to achieve targeted drug delivery in cockroaches. It is said that the computational power of these nanobots can be scaled up to that of a Commodore 64.ImplicationsMain article: Implications of nanotechnologyAn area of concern is the effect that industrialscale manufacturing and use of nanomaterials would have on human health and the environment, as suggested by nanotoxicology research. For these reasons, some groups advocate that nanotechnology be regulated by governments. Others counter that overregulation would stifle scientific research and the development of beneficial innovations. Public health research agencies, such as the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health are actively conducting research on potential health effects stemming from exposures to nanoparticles.Some nanoparticle products may have unintended consequences. Researchers have discovered that bacteriostatic silver nanoparticles used in socks to reduce foot odor are being released in the wash. These particles are then flushed into the waste water stream and may destroy bacteria which are critical components of natural ecosystems, farms, and waste treatment processes.Public deliberations on risk perception in the US and UK carried out by the Center for Nanotechnology in Society found that participants were more positive about nanotechnologies for energy applications than for health applications, with health applications raising moral and ethical dilemmas such as cost and availability.Experts, including director of the Woodrow Wilson Center's Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies David Rejeski, have testified that successful commercialization depends on adequate oversight, risk research strategy, and public engagement. Berkeley, California is currently the only city in the United States to regulate nanotechnology; In 2008, Cambridge, Massachusetts considered enacting a similar law, but ultimately rejected it.Health and environmental concernsA video on the health and safety implications of nanotechnologyMain articles: Health and safety hazards of nanomaterials and Pollution from nanomaterialsNanofibers are used in several areas and in different products, in everything from aircraft wings to tennis rackets. Inhaling airborne nanoparticles and nanofibers may lead to a number of pulmonary diseases, e.g. fibrosis. Researchers have found that when rats breathed in nanoparticles, the particles settled in the brain and lungs, which led to significant increases in biomarkers for inflammation and stress response and that nanoparticles induce skin aging through oxidative stress in hairless mice.A twoyear study at UCLA's School of Public Health found lab mice consuming nanotitanium dioxide showed DNA and chromosome damage to a degree "linked to all the big killers of man, namely cancer, heart disease, neurological disease and aging".A Nature Nanotechnology study suggests some forms of carbon nanotubes – a poster child for the "nanotechnology revolution" – could be as harmful as asbestos if inhaled in sufficient quantities. Anthony Seaton of the Institute of Occupational Medicine in Edinburgh, Scotland, who contributed to the article on carbon nanotubes said "We know that some of them probably have the potential to cause mesothelioma. So those sorts of materials need to be handled very carefully." In the absence of specific regulation forthcoming from governments, Paull and Lyons (2008) have called for an exclusion of engineered nanoparticles in food. A newspaper article reports that workers in a paint factory developed serious lung disease and nanoparticles were found in their lungs.RegulationMain article: Regulation of nanotechnologyCalls for tighter regulation of nanotechnology have occurred alongside a growing debate related to the human health and safety risks of nanotechnology. There is significant debate about who is responsible for the regulation of nanotechnology. Some regulatory agencies currently cover some nanotechnology products and processes (to varying degrees) – by "bolting on" nanotechnology to existing regulations – there are clear gaps in these regimes. Davies (2008) has proposed a regulatory road map describing steps to deal with these shortcomings.Stakeholders concerned by the lack of a regulatory framework to assess and control risks associated with the release of nanoparticles and nanotubes have drawn parallels with bovine spongiform encephalopathy ("mad cow" disease), thalidomide, genetically modified food, nuclear energy, reproductive technologies, biotechnology, and asbestosis. Andrew Maynard, chief science advisor to the Woodrow Wilson Center's Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies, concludes that there is insufficient funding for human health and safety research, and as a result there is currently limited understanding of the human health and safety risks associated with nanotechnology. As a result, some academics have called for stricter application of the precautionary principle, with delayed marketing approval, enhanced labelling and additional safety data development requirements in relation to certain forms of nanotechnology.The Royal Society report identified a risk of nanoparticles or nanotubes being released during disposal, destruction and recycling, and recommended that "manufacturers of products that fall under extended producer responsibility regimes such as endoflife regulations publish procedures outlining how these materials will be managed to minimize possible human and environmental exposure" (p. xiii).The Center for Nanotechnology in Society has found that people respond to nanotechnologies differently, depending on application – with participants in public deliberations more positive about nanotechnologies for energy than health applications – suggesting that any public calls for nano regulations may differ by technology sector.Applications of NanotechnologyAfter more than 20 years of basic nanoscience research and more than fifteen years of focused R&D under the NNI, applications of nanotechnology are delivering in both expected and unexpected ways on nanotechnology’s promise to benefit society.Nanotechnology is helping to considerably improve, even revolutionize, many technology and industry sectors: information technology, homeland security, medicine, transportation, energy, food safety, and environmental science, among many others. Described below is a sampling of the rapidly growing list of benefits and applications of nanotechnology. Everyday Materials and ProcessesMany benefits of nanotechnology depend on the fact that it is possible to tailor the structures of materials at extremely small scales to achieve specific properties, thus greatly extending the materials science toolkit. Using nanotechnology, materials can effectively be made stronger, lighter, more durable, more reactive, more sievelike, or better electrical conductors, among many other traits. Many everyday commercial products are currently on the market and in daily use that rely on nanoscale materials and processes:Nanoscale additives to or surface treatments of fabrics can provide lightweight ballistic energy deflection in personal body armor, or can help them resist wrinkling, staining, and bacterial growth.Clear nanoscale films on eyeglasses, computer and camera displays, windows, and other surfaces can make them water and residuerepellent, antireflective, selfcleaning, resistant to ultraviolet or infrared light, antifog, antimicrobial, scratchresistant, or electrically conductive.Nanoscale materials are beginning to enable washable, durable “smart fabrics” equipped with flexible nanoscale sensors and electronics with capabilities for health monitoring, solar energy capture, and energy harvesting through movement.Lightweighting of cars, trucks, airplanes, boats, and space craft could lead to significant fuel savings. Nanoscale additives in polymer composite materials are being used in baseball bats, tennis rackets, bicycles, motorcycle helmets, automobile parts, luggage, and power tool housings, making them lightweight, stiff, durable, and resilient. Carbon nanotube sheets are now being produced for use in nextgeneration air vehicles. For example, the combination of light weight and conductivity makes them ideal for applications such as electromagnetic shielding and thermal management. High resolution micrograph of polymersilicate nanocomposite from NASAHighresolution image of a polymersilicate nanocomposite. This material has improved thermal, mechanical, and barrier properties and can be used in food and beverage containers, fuel storage tanks for aircraft and automobiles, and in aerospace components. (Image courtesy of NASA.)Nanobioengineering of enzymes is aiming to enable conversion of cellulose from wood chips, corn stalks, unfertilized perennial grasses, etc., into ethanol for fuel. Cellulosic nanomaterials have demonstrated potential applications in a wide array of industrial sectors, including electronics, construction, packaging, food, energy, health care, automotive, and defense. Cellulosic nanomaterials are projected to be less expensive than many other nanomaterials and, among other characteristics, tout an impressive strengthtoweight ratio.Nanoengineered materials in automotive products include highpower rechargeable battery systems; thermoelectric materials for temperature control; tires with lower rolling resistance; highefficiency/lowcost sensors and electronics; thinfilm smart solar panels; and fuel additives for cleaner exhaust and extended range.Nanostructured ceramic coatings exhibit much greater toughness than conventional wearresistant coatings for machine parts. Nanotechnologyenabled lubricants and engine oils also significantly reduce wear and tear, which can significantly extend the lifetimes of moving parts in everything from power tools to industrial machinery.Nanoparticles are used increasingly in catalysis to boost chemical reactions. This reduces the quantity of catalytic materials necessary to produce desired results, saving money and reducing pollutants. Two big applications are in petroleum refining and in automotive catalytic converters.Nanoengineered materials make superior household products such as degreasers and stain removers; environmental sensors, air purifiers, and filters; antibacterial cleansers; and specialized paints and sealing products, such a selfcleaning house paints that resist dirt and marks.Nanoscale materials are also being incorporated into a variety of personal care products to improve performance. Nanoscale titanium dioxide and zinc oxide have been used for years in sunscreen to provide protection from the sun while appearing invisible on the skin. Electronics and IT ApplicationsNanotechnology has greatly contributed to major advances in computing and electronics, leading to faster, smaller, and more portable systems that can manage and store larger and larger amounts of information. These continuously evolving applications include:Transistors, the basic switches that enable all modern computing, have gotten smaller and smaller through nanotechnology. At the turn of the century, a typical transistor was 130 to 250 nanometers in size. In 2014, Intel created a 14 nanometer transistor, then IBM created the first seven nanometer transistor in 2015, and then Lawrence Berkeley National Lab demonstrated a one nanometer transistor in 2016! Smaller, faster, and better transistors may mean that soon your computer’s entire memory may be stored on a single tiny chip.Using magnetic random access memory (MRAM), computers will be able to “boot” almost instantly. MRAM is enabled by nanometer‐scale magnetic tunnel junctions and can quickly and effectively save data during a system shutdown or enable resume‐play features.Ultrahigh definition displays and televisions are now being sold that use quantum dots to produce more vibrant colors while being more energy efficient.Scientists in protective clothing hold up IBM's 7 nm chip waferSUNY College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering's Michael Liehr, left, and IBM's Bala Haranand display a wafer comprised of 7nm chips in a NFX clean room in Albany, New York. (Image courtesy of IBM.) Flexible, bendable, foldable, rollable, and stretchable electronics are reaching into various sectors and are being integrated into a variety of products, including wearables, medical applications, aerospace applications, and the Internet of Things. Flexible electronics have been developed using, for example, semiconductor nanomembranes for applications in smartphone and ereader displays. Other nanomaterials like graphene and cellulosic nanomaterials are being used for various types of flexible electronics to enable wearable and “tattoo” sensors, photovoltaics that can be sewn onto clothing, and electronic paper that can be rolled up. Making flat, flexible, lightweight, nonbrittle, highly efficient electronics opens the door to countless smart products. Other computing and electronic products include Flash memory chips for smart phones and thumb drives; ultraresponsive hearing aids; antimicrobial/antibacterial coatings on keyboards and cell phone casings; conductive inks for printed electronics for RFID/smart cards/smart packaging; and flexible displays for ebook readers.Nanoparticle copper suspensions have been developed as a safer, cheaper, and more reliable alternative to leadbased solder and other hazardous materials commonly used to fuse electronics in the assembly process.Medical and Healthcare Applications Nanotechnology is already broadening the medical tools, knowledge, and therapies currently available to clinicians. Nanomedicine, the application of nanotechnology in medicine, draws on the natural scale of biological phenomena to produce precise solutions for disease prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. Below are some examples of recent advances in this area: This micrograph shows four different color versions of a bamboolike structure of nitrogendoped carbon nanotubes for the treatment of cancer. This image shows the bamboolike structure of nitrogendoped carbon nanotubes for the treatment of cancer. (Courtesy of Wake Forest and the National Cancer Institute)Commercial applications have adapted gold nanoparticles as probes for the detection of targeted sequences of nucleic acids, and gold nanoparticles are also being clinically investigated as potential treatments for cancer and other diseases.Better imaging and diagnostic tools enabled by nanotechnology are paving the way for earlier diagnosis, more individualized treatment options, and better therapeutic success rates.Nanotechnology is being studied for both the diagnosis and treatment of atherosclerosis, or the buildup of plaque in arteries. In one technique, researchers created a nanoparticle that mimics the body’s “good” cholesterol, known as HDL (highdensity lipoprotein), which helps to shrink plaque. The design and engineering of advanced solidstate nanopore materials could allow for the development of novel gene sequencing technologies that enable singlemolecule detection at low cost and high speed with minimal sample preparation and instrumentation.Nanotechnology researchers are working on a number of different therapeutics where a nanoparticle can encapsulate or otherwise help to deliver medication directly to cancer cells and minimize the risk of damage to healthy tissue. This has the potential to change the way doctors treat cancer and dramatically reduce the toxic effects of chemotherapy.Research in the use of nanotechnology for regenerative medicine spans several application areas, including bone and neural tissue engineering. For instance, novel materials can be engineered to mimic the crystal mineral structure of human bone or used as a restorative resin for dental applications. Researchers are looking for ways to grow complex tissues with the goal of one day growing human organs for transplant. Researchers are also studying ways to use graphene nanoribbons to help repair spinal cord injuries; preliminary research shows that neurons grow well on the conductive graphene surface. Nanomedicine researchers are looking at ways that nanotechnology can improve vaccines, including vaccine delivery without the use of needles. Researchers also are working to create a universal vaccine scaffold for the annual flu vaccine that would cover more strains and require fewer resources to develop each year.Energy ApplicationsNanotechnology is finding application in traditional energy sources and is greatly enhancing alternative energy approaches to help meet the world’s increasing energy demands. Many scientists are looking into ways to develop clean, affordable, and renewable energy sources, along with means to reduce energy consumption and lessen toxicity burdens on the environment:Nanotechnology is improving the efficiency of fuel production from raw petroleum materials through better catalysis. It is also enabling reduced fuel consumption in vehicles and power plants through higherefficiency combustion and decreased friction.Nanotechnology is also being applied to oil and gas extraction through, for example, the use of nanotechnologyenabled gas lift valves in offshore operations or the use of nanoparticles to detect microscopic downwell oil pipeline fractures. Researchers are investigating carbon nanotube “scrubbers” and membranes to separate carbon dioxide from power plant exhaust.flexible solar cell from nanosysNew solar panel films incorporate nanoparticles to create lightweight, flexible solar cells. (Image courtesy of Nanosys) Researchers are developing wires containing carbon nanotubes that will have much lower resistance than the hightension wires currently used in the electric grid, thus reducing transmission power loss.Nanotechnology can be incorporated into solar panels to convert sunlight to electricity more efficiently, promising inexpensive solar power in the future. Nanostructured solar cells could be cheaper to manufacture and easier to install, since they can use printlike manufacturing processes and can be made in flexible rolls rather than discrete panels. Newer research suggests that future solar converters might even be “paintable.”Nanotechnology is already being used to develop many new kinds of batteries that are quickercharging, more efficient, lighter weight, have a higher power density, and hold electrical charge longer. An epoxy containing carbon nanotubes is being used to make windmill blades that are longer, stronger, and lighterweight than other blades to increase the amount of electricity that windmills can generate.In the area of energy harvesting, researchers are developing thinfilm solar electric panels that can be fitted onto computer cases and flexible piezoelectric nanowires woven into clothing to generate usable energy on the go from light, friction, and/or body heat to power mobile electronic devices. Similarly, various nanosciencebased options are being pursued to convert waste heat in computers, automobiles, homes, power plants, etc., to usable electrical power. Energy efficiency and energy saving products are increasing in number and types of application. In addition to those noted above, nanotechnology is enabling more efficient lighting systems; lighter and stronger vehicle chassis materials for the transportation sector; lower energy consumption in advanced electronics; and lightresponsive smart coatings for glass.Environmental RemediationIn addition to the ways that nanotechnology can help improve energy efficiency (see the section above), there are also many ways that it can help detect and clean up environmental contaminants:Nanotechnology could help meet the need for affordable, clean drinking water through rapid, lowcost detection and treatment of impurities in water. Engineers have developed a thin film membrane with nanopores for energyefficient desalination. This molybdenum disulphide (MoS2) membrane filtered two to five times more water than current conventional filters.Nanoparticles are being developed to clean industrial water pollutants in ground water through chemical reactions that render the pollutants harmless. This process would cost less than methods that require pumping the water out of the ground for treatment.Researchers have developed a nanofabric "paper towel" woven from tiny wires of potassium manganese oxide that can absorb 20 times its weight in oil for cleanup applications. Researchers have also placed magnetic waterrepellent nanoparticles in oil spills and used magnets to mechanically remove the oil from the water.Many airplane cabin and other types of air filters are nanotechnologybased filters that allow “mechanical filtration,” in which the fiber material creates nanoscale pores that trap particles larger than the size of the pores. The filters also may contain charcoal layers that remove odors. Nanotechnologyenabled sensors and solutions are now able to detect and identify chemical or biological agents in the air and soil with much higher sensitivity than ever before. Researchers are investigating particles such as selfassembled monolayers on mesoporous supports (SAMMS™), dendrimers, and carbon nanotubes to determine how to apply their unique chemical and physical properties for various kinds of toxic site remediation. Another sensor has been developed by NASA as a smartphone extension that firefighters can use to monitor air quality around fires.Future Transportation BenefitsNanotechnology offers the promise of developing multifunctional materials that will contribute to building and maintaining lighter, safer, smarter, and more efficient vehicles, aircraft, spacecraft, and ships. In addition, nanotechnology offers various means to improve the transportation infrastructure:As discussed above, nanoengineered materials in automotive products include polymer nanocomposites structural parts; highpower rechargeable battery systems; thermoelectric materials for temperature control; lower rollingresistance tires; highefficiency/lowcost sensors and electronics; thinfilm smart solar panels; and fuel additives and improved catalytic converters for cleaner exhaust and extended range. Nanoengineering of aluminum, steel, asphalt, concrete and other cementitious materials, and their recycled forms offers great promise in terms of improving the performance, resiliency, and longevity of highway and transportation infrastructure components while reducing their life cycle cost. New systems may incorporate innovative capabilities into traditional infrastructure materials, such as selfrepairing structures or the ability to generate or transmit energy.Nanoscale sensors and devices may provide costeffective continuous monitoring of the structural integrity and performance of bridges, tunnels, rails, parking structures, and pavements over time. Nanoscale sensors, communications devices, and other innovations enabled by nanoelectronics can also support an enhanced transportation infrastructure that can communicate with vehiclebased systems to help drivers maintain lane position, avoid collisions, adjust travel routes to avoid congestion, and improve drivers’ interfaces to onboard electronics. “Game changing” benefits from the use of nanotechnologyenabled lightweight, highstrength materials would apply to almost any transportation vehicle. For example, it has been estimated that reducing the weight of a commercial jet aircraft by 20 percent could reduce its fuel consumption by as much as 15 percent. A preliminary analysis performed for NASA has indicated that the development and use of advanced nanomaterials with twice the strength of conventional composites would reduce the gross weight of a launch vehicle by as much as 63 percent. Not only could this save a significant amount of energy needed to launch spacecraft into orbit, but it would also enable the development of single stage to orbit launch vehicles, further reducing launch costs, increasing mission reliability, and opening the door to alternative propulsion concepts.Maintaining the Focus on the Benefits of Nanotechnology via EHS and ELSI EffortsPlease visit the Environmental, Health, and Safety Issues and the Ethical, Legal, and Societal Issues pages on nano.gov to learn more about how the National Nanotechnology Initiative is committed to responsibly addressing these issues.Gene therapy is a technique that uses a gene(s) to treat, prevent or cure a disease or medical disorder. Often, gene therapy works by adding new copies of a gene that is broken, or by replacing a defective or missing gene in a patient's cells with a healthy version of that gene.Gene therapy is a medical technology which aims to produce a therapeutic effect through the manipulation of gene expression or through altering the biological properties of living cells.The first attempt at modifying human DNA was performed in 1980, by Martin Cline, but the first successful nuclear gene transfer in humans, approved by the National Institutes of Health, was performed in May 1989. The first therapeutic use of gene transfer as well as the first direct insertion of human DNA into the nuclear genome was performed by French Anderson in a trial starting in September 1990. Between 1989 and December 2018, over 2,900 clinical trials were conducted, with more than half of them in phase I. In 2003, Gendicine became the first gene therapy to receive regulatory approval. Since that time, further gene therapy drugs were approved, such as Glybera (2012), Strimvelis (2016), Kymriah (2017), Luxturna (2017), Onpattro (2018), Zolgensma (2019), Abecma (2021), Adstiladrin, Roctavian and Hemgenix (all 2022). Most of these approaches utilize adenoassociated viruses (AAVs) and lentiviruses for performing gene insertions, in vivo and ex vivo, respectively. AAVs are characterized by stabilizing the viral capsid, lower immunogenicity, ability to transduce both dividing and nondividing cells, the potential to integrate site specifically and to achieve longterm expression in the invivo treatment. ASO / siRNA approaches such as those conducted by Alnylam and Ionis Pharmaceuticals require nonviral delivery systems, and utilize alternative mechanisms for trafficking to liver cells by way of GalNAc transporters.Not all medical procedures that introduce alterations to a patient's genetic makeup can be considered gene therapy. Bone marrow transplantation and organ transplants in general have been found to introduce foreign DNA into patients.ContentsBackgroundGene therapy was first conceptualized in the 1960s, when the feasibility of adding new genetic functions to mammalian cells began to be researched. Several methods to do so were tested, including injecting genes with a micropipette directly into a living mammalian cell, and exposing cells to a precipitate of DNA that contained the desired genes. Scientists theorized that a virus could also be used as a vehicle, or vector, to deliver new genes into cells.One of the first scientists to report the successful direct incorporation of functional DNA into a mammalian cell was biochemist Dr. Lorraine Marquardt Kraus (6 September 1922 – 1 July 2016) at the University of Tennessee in Tennessee, United States. In 1961, she managed to genetically alter the hemoglobin of cells from bone marrow taken from a patient with sickle cell anaemia. She did this by incubating the patient’s cells in tissue culture with DNA extracted from a donor with normal hemoglobin. In 1968, researchers Theodore Friedmann, Jay Seegmiller, and John SubakSharpe at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Bethesda, in the United States successfully corrected genetic defects associated with LeschNyhan syndrome, a debilitating neurological disease, by adding foreign DNA to cultured cells collected from patients suffering from the disease.The first attempt, an unsuccessful one, at gene therapy (as well as the first case of medical transfer of foreign genes into humans not counting organ transplantation) was performed by geneticist Martin Cline of the University of California, Los Angeles in California, United States on 10 July 1980. Cline claimed that one of the genes in his patients was active six months later, though he never published this data or had it verified.After extensive research on animals throughout the 1980s and a 1989 bacterial gene tagging trial on humans, the first gene therapy widely accepted as a success was demonstrated in a trial that started on 14 September 1990, when Ashanthi DeSilva was treated for ADASCID.The first somatic treatment that produced a permanent genetic change was initiated in 1993. The goal was to cure malignant brain tumors by using recombinant DNA to transfer a gene making the tumor cells sensitive to a drug that in turn would cause the tumor cells to die.The polymers are either translated into proteins, interfere with target gene expression, or possibly correct genetic mutations. The most common form uses DNA that encodes a functional, therapeutic gene to replace a mutated gene. The polymer molecule is packaged within a "vector", which carries the molecule inside cells.Early clinical failures led to dismissals of gene therapy. Clinical successes since 2006 regained researchers' attention, although as of 2014, it was still largely an experimental technique. These include treatment of retinal diseases Leber's congenital amaurosis and choroideremia, Xlinked SCID, ADASCID, adrenoleukodystrophy, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), multiple myeloma, haemophilia, and Parkinson's disease. Between 2013 and April 2014, US companies invested over $600 million in the field.The first commercial gene therapy, Gendicine, was approved in China in 2003, for the treatment of certain cancers. In 2011, Neovasculgen was registered in Russia as the firstinclass genetherapy drug for treatment of peripheral artery disease, including critical limb ischemia. In 2012, Glybera, a treatment for a rare inherited disorder, lipoprotein lipase deficiency, became the first treatment to be approved for clinical use in either Europe or the United States after its endorsement by the European Commission.Following early advances in genetic engineering of bacteria, cells, and small animals, scientists started considering how to apply it to medicine. Two main approaches were considered – replacing or disrupting defective genes. Scientists focused on diseases caused by singlegene defects, such as cystic fibrosis, haemophilia, muscular dystrophy, thalassemia, and sickle cell anemia. Glybera treats one such disease, caused by a defect in lipoprotein lipase.DNA must be administered, reach the damaged cells, enter the cell and either express or disrupt a protein. Multiple delivery techniques have been explored. The initial approach incorporated DNA into an engineered virus to deliver the DNA into a chromosome. Naked DNA approaches have also been explored, especially in the context of vaccine development.Generally, efforts focused on administering a gene that causes a needed protein to be expressed. More recently, increased understanding of nuclease function has led to more direct DNA editing, using techniques such as zinc finger nucleases and CRISPR. The vector incorporates genes into chromosomes. The expressed nucleases then knock out and replace genes in the chromosome. As of 2014 these approaches involve removing cells from patients, editing a chromosome and returning the transformed cells to patients.Gene editing is a potential approach to alter the human genome to treat genetic diseases, viral diseases, and cancer. As of 2020 these approaches are being studied in clinical trials.ClassificationBreadth of definitionIn 1986, a meeting at the Institute Of Medicine defined gene therapy as the addition or replacement of a gene in a targeted cell type. In the same year, the FDA announced that it had jurisdiction over approving "gene therapy" without defining the term. The FDA added a very broad definition in 1993 of any treatment that would ‘modify or manipulate the expression of genetic material or to alter the biological properties of living cells’. In 2018 this was narrowed to ‘products that mediate their effects by transcription or translation of transferred genetic material or by specifically altering host (human) genetic sequences’.Writing in 2018, in the Journal of Law and the Biosciences, Sherkow et al. argued for a narrower definition of gene therapy than the FDA's in light of new technology that would consist of any treatment that intentionally and permanently modified a cell's genome, with the definition of genome including episomes outside the nucleus but excluding changes due to episomes that are lost over time. This definition would also exclude introducing cells that did not derive from a patient themselves, but include ex vivo approaches, and would not depend on the vector used.During the COVID19 pandemic, some academics insisted that the mRNA vaccines for COVID were not gene therapy to prevent the spread of incorrect information that the vaccine could alter DNA, other academics maintained that the vaccines were a gene therapy because they introduced genetic material into a cell. Factcheckers, such as Full Fact, Reuters, PolitiFact, and FactCheck.org said that calling the vaccines a gene therapy was incorrect. Podcast host Joe Rogan was criticized for calling mRNA vaccines gene therapy as was British politician Andrew Bridgen, with fact checker Full Fact calling for Bridgen to be removed from the conservative party for this and other statements.Genes present or addedGene therapy encapsulates many forms of adding different nucleic acids to a cell. Gene augmentation adds a new protein coding gene to a cell. One form of gene augmentiation is gene replacement therapy, a treatment for monogenic recessive disorders where a single gene is not functional an additional functional gene is added. For diseases caused by multiple genes or a dominant gene gene silencing or gene editing approaches are more appropriate but gene addition, a form of gene augmentation where new gene is added, may improve a cells function without modifying the genes that cause a disorder.: 117 Cell typesGene therapy may be classified into two types by the type of cell it affects: somatic cell and germline gene therapy.In somatic cell gene therapy (SCGT), the therapeutic genes are transferred into any cell other than a gamete, germ cell, gametocyte, or undifferentiated stem cell. Any such modifications affect the individual patient only, and are not inherited by offspring. Somatic gene therapy represents mainstream basic and clinical research, in which therapeutic DNA (either integrated in the genome or as an external episome or plasmid) is used to treat disease. Over 600 clinical trials utilizing SCGT are underway in the US. Most focus on severe genetic disorders, including immunodeficiencies, haemophilia, thalassaemia, and cystic fibrosis. Such single gene disorders are good candidates for somatic cell therapy. The complete correction of a genetic disorder or the replacement of multiple genes is not yet possible. Only a few of the trials are in the advanced stages.In germline gene therapy (GGT), germ cells (sperm or egg cells) are modified by the introduction of functional genes into their genomes. Modifying a germ cell causes all the organism's cells to contain the modified gene. The change is therefore heritable and passed on to later generations. Australia, Canada, Germany, Israel, Switzerland, and the Netherlands prohibit GGT for application in human beings, for technical and ethical reasons, including insufficient knowledge about possible risks to future generations and higher risks versus SCGT. The US has no federal controls specifically addressing human genetic modification (beyond FDA regulations for therapies in general).In vivo versus ex vivo therapiesEx vivo gene therapyIn in vivo gene therapy, a vector (typically, a virus) is introduced to the patient, which then achieves the desired biological effect by passing the genetic material (e.g. for a missing protein) into the patient's cells. In ex vivo gene therapies, such as CART therapeutics, the patient's own cells (autologous) or healthy donor cells (allogeneic) are modified outside the body (hence, ex vivo) using a vector to express a particular protein, such as a chimeric antigen receptor.In vivo gene therapy is seen as simpler, since it does not require the harvesting of mitotic cells. However, ex vivo gene therapies are better tolerated and less associated with severe immune responses. The death of Jesse Gelsinger in a trial of an adenovirusvectored treatment for ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency due to a systemic inflammatory reaction led to a temporary halt on gene therapy trials across the United States. As of 2021, in vivo and ex vivo therapeutics are both seen as safe.Gene editingSee also: CRISPR gene editingA duplex of crRNA and tracrRNA acts as guide RNA to introduce a specifically located gene modification based on the RNA 5' upstream of the crRNA. Cas9 binds the tracrRNA and needs a DNA binding sequence (5'NGG3'), which is called protospacer adjacent motif (PAM). After binding, Cas9 introduces a DNA double strand break, which is then followed by gene modification via homologous recombination (HDR) or nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ).The concept of gene therapy is to fix a genetic problem at its source. If, for instance, a mutation in a certain gene causes the production of a dysfunctional protein resulting (usually recessively) in an inherited disease, gene therapy could be used to deliver a copy of this gene that does not contain the deleterious mutation and thereby produces a functional protein. This strategy is referred to as gene replacement therapy and is employed to treat inherited retinal diseases.While the concept of gene replacement therapy is mostly suitable for recessive diseases, novel strategies have been suggested that are capable of also treating conditions with a dominant pattern of inheritance.The introduction of CRISPR gene editing has opened new doors for its application and utilization in gene therapy, as instead of pure replacement of a gene, it enables correction of the particular genetic defect. Solutions to medical hurdles, such as the eradication of latent human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reservoirs and correction of the mutation that causes sickle cell disease, may be available as a therapeutic option in the future.Prosthetic gene therapy aims to enable cells of the body to take over functions they physiologically do not carry out. One example is the socalled vision restoration gene therapy, that aims to restore vision in patients with endstage retinal diseases. In endstage retinal diseases, the photoreceptors, as the primary light sensitive cells of the retina are irreversibly lost. By the means of prosthetic gene therapy light sensitive proteins are delivered into the remaining cells of the retina, to render them light sensitive and thereby enable them to signal visual information towards the brain.In vivo, gene editing systems using CRISPR have been used in studies with mice to treat cancer and have been effective at reducing tumors.: 18  In vitro, the CRISPR system has been used to treat HPV cancer tumors. Adenoassociated virus, Lentivirus based vectors have been to introduce the genome for the CRISPR system.: 6 VectorsMain article: Vectors in gene therapyThe delivery of DNA into cells can be accomplished by multiple methods. The two major classes are recombinant viruses (sometimes called biological nanoparticles or viral vectors) and naked DNA or DNA complexes (nonviral methods).VirusesMain article: Viral vectorGene therapy using an adenovirus vector. In some cases, the adenovirus will insert the new gene into a cell. If the treatment is successful, the new gene will make a functional protein to treat a disease.In order to replicate, viruses introduce their genetic material into the host cell, tricking the host's cellular machinery into using it as blueprints for viral proteins.: 39  Retroviruses go a stage further by having their genetic material copied into the nuclear genome of the host cell. Scientists exploit this by substituting part of a virus's genetic material with therapeutic DNA or RNA.: 40   Like the genetic material (DNA or RNA) in viruses, therapeutic genetic material can be designed to simply serve as a temporary blueprint that degrades naturally, as in a nonintegrative vectors, or to enter the host's nucleus becoming a permanent part of the host's nuclear DNA in infected cells.: 50 A number of viruses have been used for human gene therapy, including retroviruses such as lentivirus, adenoviruses, herpes simplex, vaccinia, and adenoassociated virus.Adenovirus viral vectors (Ad) temporarily modify a cell's genetic expression with genetic material that is not integrated into the host cell's DNA.: 5  As of 2017, such vectors were used in 20% of trials for gene therapy.: 10  Adenovirus vectors are mostly used in cancer treatments and novel genetic vaccines such as the Ebola vaccine, vaccines used in clinical trials for HIV and SARSCoV2, or cancer vaccines.: 5 Lentiviral vectors based on lentivirus, a retrovirus, can modify a cell's nuclear genome to permanently express a gene, although vectors can be modified to prevent integration.: 40,50  Retroviruses were used in 18% of trials before 2018.: 10  Libmeldy is an ex vivo stem cell treatment for metachromatic leukodystrophy which uses a lentiviral vector and was approved by the european medical agency in 2020.Adenoassociated virus (AAV) is a virus that is incapable of transmission between cells unless the cell is infected by another virus, a helper virus. Adenovirus and the herpes viruses act as helper viruses for AAV. AAV persists within the cell outside of the cell's nuclear genome for an extended period of time through the formation of concatemers mostly organized as episomes.: 4  Genetic material from AAV vectors is integrated into the host cell's nuclear genome at a low frequency and likely mediated by the DNAmodifying enzymes of the host cell.: 2647  Animal models suggest that integration of AAV genetic material into the host cell's nuclear genome may cause hepatocellular carcinoma, a form of liver cancer.NonviralNonviral vectors for gene therapy present certain advantages over viral methods, such as large scale production and low host immunogenicity. However, nonviral methods initially produced lower levels of transfection and gene expression, and thus lower therapeutic efficacy. Newer technologies offer promise of solving these problems, with the advent of increased cellspecific targeting and subcellular trafficking control.Methods for nonviral gene therapy include the injection of naked DNA, electroporation, the gene gun, sonoporation, magnetofection, the use of oligonucleotides, lipoplexes, dendrimers, and inorganic nanoparticles.More recent approaches, such as those performed by companies such as Ligandal, offer the possibility of creating cellspecific targeting technologies for a variety of gene therapy modalities, including RNA, DNA and gene editing tools such as CRISPR. Other companies, such as Arbutus Biopharma and Arcturus Therapeutics, offer nonviral, noncelltargeted approaches that mainly exhibit liver trophism. In more recent years, startups such as Sixfold Bio, Gen, and Spotlight Therapeutics have begun to solve the nonviral gene delivery problem. Nonviral techniques offer the possibility of repeat dosing and greater tailorability of genetic payloads, which in the future will be more likely to take over viralbased delivery systems.Companies such as as Medicine, Intellia Therapeutics, CRISPR Therapeutics, Casebia, Cellectis, Precision Biosciences, bluebird bio, and Sangamo have developed nonviral gene editing techniques, however frequently still use viruses for delivering gene insertion material following genomic cleavage by guided nucleases. These companies focus on gene editing, and still face major delivery hurdles.BioNTech, Moderna Therapeutics and CureVac focus on delivery of mRNA payloads, which are necessarily nonviral delivery problems.Alnylam, Dicerna Pharmaceuticals, and Ionis Pharmaceuticals focus on delivery of siRNA (antisense oligonucleotides) for gene suppression, which also necessitate nonviral delivery systems.In academic contexts, a number of laboratories are working on delivery of PEGylated particles, which form serum protein coronas and chiefly exhibit LDL receptor mediated uptake in cells in vivo.TreatmentCancerDirect gene therapySuicide gene therapy graphic used to treat cancerThere have been attempts to treat cancer using gene therapy. As of 2017, 65% of gene therapy trials were for cancer treatment.: 7 Adenovirus vectors are useful for some cancer gene therapies because adenovirus can transiently insert genetic material into a cell without permanently altering the cell's nuclear genome. These vectors can be used to cause antigens to be added to cancers causing an immune response, or hinder angiogenesis by expressing certain proteins.: 5  An Adenovirus vector is used in the commercial products Gendicine and Oncorine.: 10  Another commercial product, Rexin G, uses a retrovirusbased vector and selectively binds to receptors that are more expressed in tumors.: 10 One approach, suicide gene therapy, works by introducing genes encoding enzymes that will cause a cancer cell to die. Another approach is the use oncolytic viruses, such as Oncorine,: 165  which are viruses that selectively reproduce in cancerous cells leaving other cells unaffected.: 6 : 280 mRNA has been suggested as a nonviral vector for cancer gene therapy that would temporarily change a cancerous cell's function to create antigens or kill the cancerous cells and their have been several trials.Genetic diseasesGene therapy approaches to replace a faulty gene with a healthy gene have been proposed and are being studied for treating some genetic diseases. As of 2017, 11.1% of gene therapy clinical trials targeted monogenic diseases.: 9 Diseases such as sickle cell disease that are caused by autosomal recessive disorders for which a person's normal phenotype or cell function may be restored in cells that have the disease by a normal copy of the gene that is mutated, may be a good candidate for gene therapy treatment. The risks and benefits related to gene therapy for sickle cell disease are not known.Gene therapy has been used in the eye. The eye is especially suitable for adenoassociated virus vectors. Luxturna is an approved gene therapy to treat Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.: 1354  Glybera, a treatment for pancreatitis caused by a genetic condition, and Zolgensma for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy both use an adenoassociated virus vector.: 2647 Infectious diseasesAs of 2017, 7% of genetic therapy trials targeted infectious diseases. 69.2% of trials targeted HIV, 11% hepatitis B or C, and 7.1% malaria.List of gene therapies for treatment of diseaseSee also: List of gene therapiesSome genetic therapies have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the European Medicines Agency (EMA), and for use in Russia and China.List of approved gene therapies for the treatment of diseaseINN	Brand name	Type	Manufacturer	Target	FDA approved	EMA authorizedalipogene tiparvovec	Glybera	In vivo	Chiesi Farmaceutici	lipoprotein lipase deficiency	No	Withdrawnatidarsagene autotemcel	Libmeldy(Arylsulfatase A gene encoding autologous CD34+ cells)Ex vitro	Orchard Therapeutics	metachromatic leukodystrophy	No	17 December 2020autologous CD34+	Strimvelis			adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADASCID)		26 May 2016axicabtagene ciloleucel	Yescarta			large Bcell lymphoma	18 October 2017	23 August 2018Beremagene geperpavec	Vyjuvek	In vivo	Krystal Biotech	Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB)	19 May 2023	Nobetibeglogene autotemcel	Zynteglo			beta thalassemia	17 August 2022	29 May 2019brexucabtagene autoleucel	Tecartus	Ex vitro	Kite Pharma	mantle cell lymphoma and acute lymphoblastic leukemia	24 July 2020	14 December 2020cambiogenplasmid	Neovasculgen			vascular endothelial growth factor peripheral artery disease		Delandistrogene moxeparvovec	Elevidys	In vivo	Catalent	Duchenne muscular dystrophy	22 June 2023	Noelivaldogene autotemcel	Skysona			cerebral adrenoleukodystrophy		16 July 2021gendicine				head and neck squamous cell carcinoma		idecabtagene vicleucel	Abecma	Ex vivo	Celgene	multiple myeloma	26 March 2021	Nolisocabtagene maraleucel	Breyanzi	Ex vivo	Juno Therapeutics	Bcell lymphoma	5 February 2021	Nonadofaragene firadenovec	Adstiladrin		Ferring Pharmaceuticals	highrisk Bacillus CalmetteGuérin (BCG)unresponsive nonmuscleinvasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) with carcinoma in situ (CIS)	Yes	Noonasemnogene abeparvovec	Zolgensma	In vivo	Novartis Gene Therapies	Spinal muscular atrophy Type I	24 May 2019	26 March 2020talimogene laherparepvec	Imlygic	In vivo	Amgen	melanoma	27 October 2015	16 December 2015tisagenlecleucel	Kymriah			B cell lymphoblastic leukemia		22 August 2018valoctocogene roxaparvovec	Roctavian		BioMarin International Limited	hemophilia A		August 2022voretigene neparvovec	Luxturna	In vivo	Spark Therapeutics	biallelic RPE65 mutation associated Leber congenital amaurosis	18 December 2017	22 November 2018Adverse effects, contraindications and hurdles for useSome of the unsolved problems include:Shortlived nature – Before gene therapy can become a permanent cure for a condition, the therapeutic DNA introduced into target cells must remain functional and the cells containing the therapeutic DNA must be stable. Problems with integrating therapeutic DNA into the nuclear genome and the rapidly dividing nature of many cells prevent it from achieving longterm benefits. Patients require multiple treatments.Immune response – Any time a foreign object is introduced into human tissues, the immune system is stimulated to attack the invader. Stimulating the immune system in a way that reduces gene therapy effectiveness is possible. The immune system's enhanced response to viruses that it has seen before reduces the effectiveness to repeated treatments.Problems with viral vectors – Viral vectors carry the risks of toxicity, inflammatory responses, and gene control and targeting issues.Multigene disorders – Some commonly occurring disorders, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, Alzheimer's disease, arthritis, and diabetes, are affected by variations in multiple genes, which complicate gene therapy.Some therapies may breach the Weismann barrier (between soma and germline) protecting the testes, potentially modifying the germline, falling afoul of regulations in countries that prohibit the latter practice.Insertional mutagenesis – If the DNA is integrated in a sensitive spot in the genome, for example in a tumor suppressor gene, the therapy could induce a tumor. This has occurred in clinical trials for Xlinked severe combined immunodeficiency (XSCID) patients, in which hematopoietic stem cells were transduced with a corrective transgene using a retrovirus, and this led to the development of T cell leukemia in 3 of 20 patients. One possible solution is to add a functional tumor suppressor gene to the DNA to be integrated. This may be problematic since the longer the DNA is, the harder it is to integrate into cell genomes. CRISPR technology allows researchers to make much more precise genome changes at exact locations.Cost – Alipogene tiparvovec or Glybera, for example, at a cost of $1.6 million per patient, was reported in 2013, to be the world's most expensive drug.DeathsThree patients' deaths have been reported in gene therapy trials, putting the field under close scrutiny. The first was that of Jesse Gelsinger, who died in 1999, because of immune rejection response. One XSCID patient died of leukemia in 2003. In 2007, a rheumatoid arthritis patient died from an infection; the subsequent investigation concluded that the death was not related to gene therapy.RegulationsRegulations covering genetic modification are part of general guidelines about humaninvolved biomedical research. There are no international treaties which are legally binding in this area, but there are recommendations for national laws from various bodies.The Helsinki Declaration (Ethical Principles for Medical Research Involving Human Subjects) was amended by the World Medical Association's General Assembly in 2008. This document provides principles physicians and researchers must consider when involving humans as research subjects. The Statement on Gene Therapy Research initiated by the Human Genome Organization (HUGO) in 2001, provides a legal baseline for all countries. HUGO's document emphasizes human freedom and adherence to human rights, and offers recommendations for somatic gene therapy, including the importance of recognizing public concerns about such research.United StatesNo federal legislation lays out protocols or restrictions about human genetic engineering. This subject is governed by overlapping regulations from local and federal agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA and NIH's Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee. Researchers seeking federal funds for an investigational new drug application, (commonly the case for somatic human genetic engineering,) must obey international and federal guidelines for the protection of human subjects.NIH serves as the main gene therapy regulator for federally funded research. Privately funded research is advised to follow these regulations. NIH provides funding for research that develops or enhances genetic engineering techniques and to evaluate the ethics and quality in current research. The NIH maintains a mandatory registry of human genetic engineering research protocols that includes all federally funded projects.An NIH advisory committee published a set of guidelines on gene manipulation. The guidelines discuss lab safety as well as human test subjects and various experimental types that involve genetic changes. Several sections specifically pertain to human genetic engineering, including Section IIIC1. This section describes required review processes and other aspects when seeking approval to begin clinical research involving genetic transfer into a human patient. The protocol for a gene therapy clinical trial must be approved by the NIH's Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee prior to any clinical trial beginning; this is different from any other kind of clinical trial.As with other kinds of drugs, the FDA regulates the quality and safety of gene therapy products and supervises how these products are used clinically. Therapeutic alteration of the human genome falls under the same regulatory requirements as any other medical treatment. Research involving human subjects, such as clinical trials, must be reviewed and approved by the FDA and an Institutional Review Board.Gene dopingMain article: Gene dopingAthletes may adopt gene therapy technologies to improve their performance. Gene doping is not known to occur, but multiple gene therapies may have such effects. Kayser et al. argue that gene doping could level the playing field if all athletes receive equal access. Critics claim that any therapeutic intervention for nontherapeutic/enhancement purposes compromises the ethical foundations of medicine and sports.Genetic enhancementFurther information: Human genetic enhancementSee also: Human germline engineering and Assisted reproductive technologyGenetic engineering could be used to cure diseases, but also to change physical appearance, metabolism, and even improve physical capabilities and mental faculties such as memory and intelligence. Ethical claims about germline engineering include beliefs that every fetus has a right to remain genetically unmodified, that parents hold the right to genetically modify their offspring, and that every child has the right to be born free of preventable diseases. For parents, genetic engineering could be seen as another child enhancement technique to add to diet, exercise, education, training, cosmetics, and plastic surgery. Another theorist claims that moral concerns limit but do not prohibit germline engineering.A recent issue of the journal Bioethics was devoted to moral issues surrounding germline genetic engineering in people.Possible regulatory schemes include a complete ban, provision to everyone, or professional selfregulation. The American Medical Association's Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs stated that "genetic interventions to enhance traits should be considered permissible only in severely restricted situations: (1) clear and meaningful benefits to the fetus or child; (2) no tradeoff with other characteristics or traits; and (3) equal access to the genetic technology, irrespective of income or other socioeconomic characteristics."As early in the history of biotechnology as 1990, there have been scientists opposed to attempts to modify the human germline using these new tools, and such concerns have continued as technology progressed. With the advent of new techniques like CRISPR, in March 2015 a group of scientists urged a worldwide moratorium on clinical use of gene editing technologies to edit the human genome in a way that can be inherited. In April 2015, researchers sparked controversy when they reported results of basic research to edit the DNA of nonviable human embryos using CRISPR. A committee of the American National Academy of Sciences and National Academy of Medicine gave qualified support to human genome editing in 2017 once answers have been found to safety and efficiency problems "but only for serious conditions under stringent oversight."History‹ The template below (Summarize section) is being considered for merging. See templates for discussion to help reach a consensus. ›1970s and earlierIn 1972, Friedmann and Roblin authored a paper in Science titled "Gene therapy for human genetic disease?". Rogers (1970) was cited for proposing that exogenous good DNA be used to replace the defective DNA in those with genetic defects.1980sIn 1984, a retrovirus vector system was designed that could efficiently insert foreign genes into mammalian chromosomes.1990sThe first approved gene therapy clinical research in the US took place on 14 September 1990, at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), under the direction of William French Anderson. Fouryearold Ashanti DeSilva received treatment for a genetic defect that left her with adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADASCID), a severe immune system deficiency. The defective gene of the patient's blood cells was replaced by the functional variant. Ashanti's immune system was partially restored by the therapy. Production of the missing enzyme was temporarily stimulated, but the new cells with functional genes were not generated. She led a normal life only with the regular injections performed every two months. The effects were successful, but temporary.Cancer gene therapy was introduced in 1992/93 (Trojan et al. 1993). The treatment of glioblastoma multiforme, the malignant brain tumor whose outcome is always fatal, was done using a vector expressing antisense IGFI RNA (clinical trial approved by NIH protocol no.1602 24 November 1993, and by the FDA in 1994). This therapy also represents the beginning of cancer immunogene therapy, a treatment which proves to be effective due to the antitumor mechanism of IGFI antisense, which is related to strong immune and apoptotic phenomena.In 1992, Claudio Bordignon, working at the VitaSalute San Raffaele University, performed the first gene therapy procedure using hematopoietic stem cells as vectors to deliver genes intended to correct hereditary diseases. In 2002, this work led to the publication of the first successful gene therapy treatment for ADASCID. The success of a multicenter trial for treating children with SCID (severe combined immune deficiency or "bubble boy" disease) from 2000 and 2002, was questioned when two of the ten children treated at the trial's Paris center developed a leukemialike condition. Clinical trials were halted temporarily in 2002, but resumed after regulatory review of the protocol in the US, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, and Germany.In 1993, Andrew Gobea was born with SCID following prenatal genetic screening. Blood was removed from his mother's placenta and umbilical cord immediately after birth, to acquire stem cells. The allele that codes for adenosine deaminase (ADA) was obtained and inserted into a retrovirus. Retroviruses and stem cells were mixed, after which the viruses inserted the gene into the stem cell chromosomes. Stem cells containing the working ADA gene were injected into Andrew's blood. Injections of the ADA enzyme were also given weekly. For four years T cells (white blood cells), produced by stem cells, made ADA enzymes using the ADA gene. After four years more treatment was needed.Jesse Gelsinger's death in 1999 impeded gene therapy research in the US. As a result, the FDA suspended several clinical trials pending the reevaluation of ethical and procedural practices.2000sThe modified gene therapy strategy of antisense IGFI RNA (NIH n˚ 1602) using antisense / triple helix antiIGFI approach was registered in 2002, by Wiley gene therapy clinical trial  n˚ 635 and 636. The approach has shown promising results in the treatment of six different malignant tumors: glioblastoma, cancers of liver, colon, prostate, uterus, and ovary (Collaborative NATO Science Programme on Gene Therapy USA, France, Poland n˚ LST 980517 conducted by J. Trojan) (Trojan et al., 2012). This antigene antisense/triple helix therapy has proven to be efficient, due to the mechanism stopping simultaneously IGFI expression on translation and transcription levels, strengthening antitumor immune and apoptotic phenomena.2002Sickle cell disease can be treated in mice. The mice – which have essentially the same defect that causes human cases – used a viral vector to induce production of fetal hemoglobin (HbF), which normally ceases to be produced shortly after birth. In humans, the use of hydroxyurea to stimulate the production of HbF temporarily alleviates sickle cell symptoms. The researchers demonstrated this treatment to be a more permanent means to increase therapeutic HbF production.A new gene therapy approach repaired errors in messenger RNA derived from defective genes. This technique has the potential to treat thalassaemia, cystic fibrosis and some cancers.Researchers created liposomes 25 nanometers across that can carry therapeutic DNA through pores in the nuclear membrane.2003In 2003, a research team inserted genes into the brain for the first time. They used liposomes coated in a polymer called polyethylene glycol, which unlike viral vectors, are small enough to cross the blood–brain barrier.Short pieces of doublestranded RNA (short, interfering RNAs or siRNAs) are used by cells to degrade RNA of a particular sequence. If a siRNA is designed to match the RNA copied from a faulty gene, then the abnormal protein product of that gene will not be produced.Gendicine is a cancer gene therapy that delivers the tumor suppressor gene p53 using an engineered adenovirus. In 2003, it was approved in China for the treatment of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.2006In March, researchers announced the successful use of gene therapy to treat two adult patients for Xlinked chronic granulomatous disease, a disease which affects myeloid cells and damages the immune system. The study is the first to show that gene therapy can treat the myeloid system.In May, a team reported a way to prevent the immune system from rejecting a newly delivered gene. Similar to organ transplantation, gene therapy has been plagued by this problem. The immune system normally recognizes the new gene as foreign and rejects the cells carrying it. The research utilized a newly uncovered network of genes regulated by molecules known as microRNAs. This natural function selectively obscured their therapeutic gene in immune system cells and protected it from discovery. Mice infected with the gene containing an immunecell microRNA target sequence did not reject the gene.In August, scientists successfully treated metastatic melanoma in two patients using killer T cells genetically retargeted to attack the cancer cells.In November, researchers reported on the use of VRX496, a genebased immunotherapy for the treatment of HIV that uses a lentiviral vector to deliver an antisense gene against the HIV envelope. In a phase I clinical trial, five subjects with chronic HIV infection who had failed to respond to at least two antiretroviral regimens were treated. A single intravenous infusion of autologous CD4 T cells genetically modified with VRX496 was well tolerated. All patients had stable or decreased viral load; four of the five patients had stable or increased CD4 T cell counts. All five patients had stable or increased immune response to HIV antigens and other pathogens. This was the first evaluation of a lentiviral vector administered in a US human clinical trial.2007In May, researchers announced the first gene therapy trial for inherited retinal disease. The first operation was carried out on a 23yearold British male, Robert Johnson, in early 2007.2008Leber's congenital amaurosis is an inherited blinding disease caused by mutations in the RPE65 gene. The results of a small clinical trial in children were published in April. Delivery of recombinant adenoassociated virus (AAV) carrying RPE65 yielded positive results. In May, two more groups reported positive results in independent clinical trials using gene therapy to treat the condition. In all three clinical trials, patients recovered functional vision without apparent sideeffects.2009In September researchers were able to give trichromatic vision to squirrel monkeys. In November 2009, researchers halted a fatal genetic disorder called adrenoleukodystrophy in two children using a lentivirus vector to deliver a functioning version of ABCD1, the gene that is mutated in the disorder.2010s2010An April paper reported that gene therapy addressed achromatopsia (color blindness) in dogs by targeting cone photoreceptors. Cone function and day vision were restored for at least 33 months in two young specimens. The therapy was less efficient for older dogs.In September it was announced that an 18yearold male patient in France with beta thalassemia major had been successfully treated. Beta thalassemia major is an inherited blood disease in which beta haemoglobin is missing and patients are dependent on regular lifelong blood transfusions. The technique used a lentiviral vector to transduce the human βglobin gene into purified blood and marrow cells obtained from the patient in June 2007. The patient's haemoglobin levels were stable at 9 to 10 g/dL. About a third of the hemoglobin contained the form introduced by the viral vector and blood transfusions were not needed. Further clinical trials were planned. Bone marrow transplants are the only cure for thalassemia, but 75% of patients do not find a matching donor.Cancer immunogene therapy using modified antigene, antisense/triple helix approach was introduced in South America in 2010/11 in La Sabana University, Bogota (Ethical Committee 14 December 2010, no P00410). Considering the ethical aspect of gene diagnostic and gene therapy targeting IGFI, the IGFI expressing tumors i.e. lung and epidermis cancers were treated (Trojan et al. 2016).2011In 2007 and 2008, a man (Timothy Ray Brown) was cured of HIV by repeated hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (see also allogeneic stem cell transplantation, allogeneic bone marrow transplantation, allotransplantation) with doubledelta32 mutation which disables the CCR5 receptor. This cure was accepted by the medical community in 2011. It required complete ablation of existing bone marrow, which is very debilitating.In August two of three subjects of a pilot study were confirmed to have been cured from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The therapy used genetically modified T cells to attack cells that expressed the CD19 protein to fight the disease. In 2013, the researchers announced that 26 of 59 patients had achieved complete remission and the original patient had remained tumorfree.Human HGF plasmid DNA therapy of cardiomyocytes is being examined as a potential treatment for coronary artery disease as well as treatment for the damage that occurs to the heart after myocardial infarction.In 2011, Neovasculgen was registered in Russia as the firstinclass genetherapy drug for treatment of peripheral artery disease, including critical limb ischemia; it delivers the gene encoding for VEGF. Neovasculogen is a plasmid encoding the CMV promoter and the 165 amino acid form of VEGF.2012The FDA approved Phase I clinical trials on thalassemia major patients in the US for 10 participants in July. The study was expected to continue until 2015.In July 2012, the European Medicines Agency recommended approval of a gene therapy treatment for the first time in either Europe or the United States. The treatment used Alipogene tiparvovec (Glybera) to compensate for lipoprotein lipase deficiency, which can cause severe pancreatitis. The recommendation was endorsed by the European Commission in November 2012, and commercial rollout began in late 2014. Alipogene tiparvovec was expected to cost around $1.6 million per treatment in 2012, revised to $1 million in 2015, making it the most expensive medicine in the world at the time. As of 2016, only the patients treated in clinical trials and a patient who paid the full price for treatment have received the drug.In December 2012, it was reported that 10 of 13 patients with multiple myeloma were in remission "or very close to it" three months after being injected with a treatment involving genetically engineered T cells to target proteins NYESO1 and LAGE1, which exist only on cancerous myeloma cells.2013In March researchers reported that three of five adult subjects who had acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) had been in remission for five months to two years after being treated with genetically modified T cells which attacked cells with CD19 genes on their surface, i.e. all B cells, cancerous or not. The researchers believed that the patients' immune systems would make normal T cells and B cells after a couple of months. They were also given bone marrow. One patient relapsed and died and one died of a blood clot unrelated to the disease.Following encouraging Phase I trials, in April, researchers announced they were starting Phase II clinical trials (called CUPID2 and SERCALVAD) on 250 patients at several hospitals to combat heart disease. The therapy was designed to increase the levels of SERCA2, a protein in heart muscles, improving muscle function. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted this a breakthrough therapy designation to accelerate the trial and approval process. In 2016, it was reported that no improvement was found from the CUPID 2 trial.In July researchers reported promising results for six children with two severe hereditary diseases had been treated with a partially deactivated lentivirus to replace a faulty gene and after 7–32 months. Three of the children had metachromatic leukodystrophy, which causes children to lose cognitive and motor skills. The other children had Wiskott–Aldrich syndrome, which leaves them to open to infection, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Follow up trials with gene therapy on another six children with Wiskott–Aldrich syndrome were also reported as promising.In October researchers reported that two children born with adenosine deaminase severe combined immunodeficiency disease (ADASCID) had been treated with genetically engineered stem cells 18 months previously and that their immune systems were showing signs of full recovery. Another three children were making progress. In 2014, a further 18 children with ADASCID were cured by gene therapy. ADASCID children have no functioning immune system and are sometimes known as "bubble children".Also in October researchers reported that they had treated six people with haemophilia in early 2011 using an adenoassociated virus. Over two years later all six were producing clotting factor.2014In January researchers reported that six choroideremia patients had been treated with adenoassociated virus with a copy of REP1. Over a sixmonth to twoyear period all had improved their sight. By 2016, 32 patients had been treated with positive results and researchers were hopeful the treatment would be longlasting. Choroideremia is an inherited genetic eye disease with no approved treatment, leading to loss of sight.In March researchers reported that 12 HIV patients had been treated since 2009 in a trial with a genetically engineered virus with a rare mutation (CCR5 deficiency) known to protect against HIV with promising results.Clinical trials of gene therapy for sickle cell disease were started in 2014.In February LentiGlobin BB305, a gene therapy treatment undergoing clinical trials for treatment of beta thalassemia gained FDA "breakthrough" status after several patients were able to forgo the frequent blood transfusions usually required to treat the disease.In March researchers delivered a recombinant gene encoding a broadly neutralizing antibody into monkeys infected with simian HIV; the monkeys' cells produced the antibody, which cleared them of HIV. The technique is named immunoprophylaxis by gene transfer (IGT). Animal tests for antibodies to ebola, malaria, influenza, and hepatitis were underway.In March, scientists, including an inventor of CRISPR, Jennifer Doudna, urged a worldwide moratorium on germline gene therapy, writing "scientists should avoid even attempting, in lax jurisdictions, germline genome modification for clinical application in humans" until the full implications "are discussed among scientific and governmental organizations".In December, scientists of major world academies called for a moratorium on inheritable human genome edits, including those related to CRISPRCas9 technologies but that basic research including embryo gene editing should continue.2015Researchers successfully treated a boy with epidermolysis bullosa using skin grafts grown from his own skin cells, genetically altered to repair the mutation that caused his disease.In November, researchers announced that they had treated a baby girl, Layla Richards, with an experimental treatment using donor T cells genetically engineered using TALEN to attack cancer cells. One year after the treatment she was still free of her cancer (a highly aggressive form of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ). Children with highly aggressive ALL normally have a very poor prognosis and Layla's disease had been regarded as terminal before the treatment.2016In April the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency endorsed a gene therapy treatment called Strimvelis and the European Commission approved it in June. This treats children born with adenosine deaminase deficiency and who have no functioning immune system. This was the second gene therapy treatment to be approved in Europe.In October, Chinese scientists reported they had started a trial to genetically modify T cells from 10 adult patients with lung cancer and reinject the modified T cells back into their bodies to attack the cancer cells. The T cells had the PD1 protein (which stops or slows the immune response) removed using CRISPRCas9.A 2016 Cochrane systematic review looking at data from four trials on topical cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene therapy does not support its clinical use as a mist inhaled into the lungs to treat cystic fibrosis patients with lung infections. One of the four trials did find weak evidence that liposomebased CFTR gene transfer therapy may lead to a small respiratory improvement for people with CF. This weak evidence is not enough to make a clinical recommendation for routine CFTR gene therapy.2017In February Kite Pharma announced results from a clinical trial of CART cells in around a hundred people with advanced nonHodgkin lymphoma.In March, French scientists reported on clinical research of gene therapy to treat sickle cell disease.In August, the FDA approved tisagenlecleucel for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Tisagenlecleucel is an adoptive cell transfer therapy for Bcell acute lymphoblastic leukemia; T cells from a person with cancer are removed, genetically engineered to make a specific Tcell receptor (a chimeric T cell receptor, or "CART") that reacts to the cancer, and are administered back to the person. The T cells are engineered to target a protein called CD19 that is common on B cells. This is the first form of gene therapy to be approved in the United States. In October, a similar therapy called axicabtagene ciloleucel was approved for nonHodgkin lymphoma.In October, biophysicist and biohacker Josiah Zayner claimed to have performed the very first invivo human genome editing in the form of a selfadministered therapy.On 13 November, medical scientists working with Sangamo Therapeutics, headquartered in Richmond, California, announced the first ever inbody human gene editing therapy. The treatment, designed to permanently insert a healthy version of the flawed gene that causes Hunter syndrome, was given to 44yearold Brian Madeux and is part of the world's first study to permanently edit DNA inside the human body. The success of the gene insertion was later confirmed. Clinical trials by Sangamo involving gene editing using zinc finger nuclease (ZFN) are ongoing.In December the results of using an adenoassociated virus with blood clotting factor VIII to treat nine haemophilia A patients were published. Six of the seven patients on the high dose regime increased the level of the blood clotting VIII to normal levels. The low and medium dose regimes had no effect on the patient's blood clotting levels.In December, the FDA approved Luxturna, the first in vivo gene therapy, for the treatment of blindness due to Leber's congenital amaurosis. The price of this treatment is US$850,000 for both eyes.2019In May, the FDA approved onasemnogene abeparvovec (Zolgensma) for treating spinal muscular atrophy in children under two years of age. The list price of Zolgensma was set at US$2.125 million per dose, making it the most expensive drug ever.In May, the EMA approved betibeglogene autotemcel (Zynteglo) for treating beta thalassemia for people twelve years of age and older.In July, Allergan and as Medicine announced phase I/II clinical trial of AGN151587 for the treatment of Leber congenital amaurosis 10. This is the first study of a CRISPRbased in vivo human gene editing therapy, where the editing takes place inside the human body. The first injection of the CRISPRCas System was confirmed in March 2020.2020s2020In May, onasemnogene abeparvovec (Zolgensma) was approved by the European Union for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy in people who either have clinical symptoms of SMA type 1 or who have no more than three copies of the SMN2 gene, irrespective of body weight or age.In August, Audentes Therapeutics reported that three out of 17 children with Xlinked myotubular myopathy participating the clinical trial of a AAV8based gene therapy treatment AT132 have died. It was suggested that the treatment, whose dosage is based on body weight, exerts a disproportionately toxic effect on heavier patients, since the three patients who died were heavier than the others. The trial has been put on clinical hold.On 15 October, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Libmeldy (autologous CD34+ cell enriched population that contains hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells transduced ex vivo using a lentiviral vector encoding the human arylsulfatase A gene), a gene therapy for the treatment of children with the "late infantile" (LI) or "early juvenile" (EJ) forms of metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD). The active substance of Libmeldy consists of the child's own stem cells which have been modified to contain working copies of the ARSA gene. When the modified cells are injected back into the patient as a onetime infusion, the cells are expected to start producing the ARSA enzyme that breaks down the buildup of sulfatides in the nerve cells and other cells of the patient's body. Libmeldy was approved for medical use in the EU in December 2020.On 15 October, Lysogene, a French biotechnological company, reported the death of a patient in who has received LYSSAF302, an experimental gene therapy treatment for mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA (Sanfilippo syndrome type A).2021In May, a new method using an altered version of the HIV virus as a lentivirus vector was reported in the treatment of 50 children with ADASCID obtaining positive results in 48 of them, this method is expected to be safer than retroviruses vectors commonly used in previous studies of SCID where the development of leukemia was usually observed and had already been used in 2019, but in a smaller group with XSCID.In June a clinical trial on six patients affected with transthyretin amyloidosis reported a reduction the concentration of missfolded transthretin (TTR) protein in serum through CRISPRbased inactivation of the TTR gene in liver cells observing mean reductions of 52% and 87% among the lower and higher dose groups.This was done in vivo without taking cells out of the patient to edit them and reinfuse them later.In July results of a small gene therapy phase I study was published reporting observation of dopamine restoration on seven patients between 4 and 9 years old affected by aromatic Lamino acid decarboxylase deficiency (AADC deficiency).2022In February, the first ever gene therapy for Tay–Sachs disease was announced, it uses an adenoassociated virus to deliver the correct instruction for the HEXA gene on brain cells which causes the disease. Only two children were part of a compassionate trial presenting improvements over the natural course of the disease and no vectorrelated adverse events.In May, eladocagene exuparvovec is recommended for approval by the European Commission.In July results of a gene therapy candidate for haemophilia B called FLT180 were announced, it works using an adenoassociated virus (AAV) to restore the clotting factor IX (FIX) protein, normal levels of the protein were observed with low doses of the therapy but immunosuppression was necessitated to decrease the risk of vectorrelated immune responses.In December, a 13year girl that had been diagnosed with Tcell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia was successfully treated at Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH) in the first documented use of therapeutic gene editing for this purpose, after undergoing six months of an experimental treatment, where all attempts of other treatments failed. The procedure included reprogramming a healthy Tcell to destroy the cancerous Tcells to first rid her of leukaemia, and then rebuilding her immune system using healthy immune cells. The GOSH team used BASE editing and had previously treated a case of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in 2015 using TALENs.2023In May the FDA approved Vyjuvek for the treatment of wounds in patients with dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB) which is applied as a topical gel that delivers a herpessimplex virus type 1 (HSV1) vector encoding the collagen type VII alpha 1 chain (COL7A1) gene that is dysfunctional on those affected by DEB . One trial found 65% of the Vyjuvektreated wounds completely closed while only 26% of the placebotreated at 24 weeks. It has been also reported its use as a eyedrops for a patient with DEB that had vision loss due to the widespread blistering with good results.In June the FDA gave an accelerated approval to Elevidys for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) only for boys 4 to 5 years old as they are more likely to benefit from the theraphy which consists of onetime intravenous infusion of a virus (AAV rh74 vector) that delivers a functioning “microdystrophin” gene (138 kDa) into the muscle cells to act in place of the normal dystrophin (427 kDa) that is found mutated in this disease.STSLESSON 13 – THE ASPECTS OF GENE THERAPYOBJECTIVES:●Describe gene therapy and its various forms; and●Assess the issue’s potential benefits and detriments to global health.Medical science has detected many human diseases related to defective genes. These types of diseases are not curable by traditional methods like taking readily available medicines. Gene therapy is a potential method to either treat or cure genericrelated human illnesses.In 2015, a team of researchers at the Harvard Medical School and the Boston Children’s Hospital stated that they were able to restore basic hearing in genetically deaf mice using gene therapy. The Boston Children’s Hospital research team also reported that they have restored a higher level of hearing – down to 25 decibels which isactually equivalent to a whisper. They used an improved gene therapy vector developed at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear that was identified as “Anc80” which enables the transfer of genes to the inaccessible outer hair cells when introduced into the cochlea.Human gene therapy was actually first realized in 1971 when the first recombinant DNA experiments were planned. It can be simply viewed as insertion foreign DNA into apatient’s tissue that hope to successfully eradicate the targeted disease. It was actually inspired by the success of recombinant DNA technology which occurred over the last 20years. Without a doubt, gene therapy is the most promising yet possibly unfavorable medical field being studied.The Basic ProcessThere are several approaches to gene therapy. These are the following:●Replacement of mutated gene that causes disease with a healthy copy of the gene●Inactivation of a mutated gene that is functioning improperly●Introducing a new gene into the body to help fight a diseaseIn general, a gene cannot be directly inserted into a human gene or cell. A gene is inserted into another gene using a carrier or vector. At present, the most common type of vectors are viruses that have been genetically changed to carry normal human DNA. Viruses have evolved a way of encapsulating and transporting their genes to human cells in a pathogenic manner.Two Types of Gene TherapyThe idea of gene therapy is based on correcting a disease at its root; fixing the abnormal genes that appear to lead to certain diseases.There are essentially two forms of gene therapy. One of which is called somatic gene therapy. Somatic gene therapy involves the manipulation of genes in cells that will be helpful to the patient but not inherited to the next generation.The other form of gene therapy is called germline gene therapy which involves the genetic modification of germ cells or the origin cells that will pass the change on to the next generation.Stem Cell Gene TherapyStem cells are mother cells that have the potential to become any type of cell in the body. One of the main characteristics of stem cells is their ability to selfrenew or multiply while maintaining the potential to develop into other types of cells. Stem cells can become cells of the blood, heart, bones, skin, muscles, brain, among others. Thereare different sources of stem cells but all types of stem cells have the same capacity to develop into multiple types of cells.Stem cells are derived from sources. Two of which are embryonic and somatic stem cells.The embryonic stem cells are derived from a fourorfivedayold human embryo that is in the blastocyst phase of development. The embryos are usually extras that have been created in IVF (in vitro fertilization) clinics where several eggs are fertilized in a tube then implanted into a woman.The somatic stem cells are cells that exist throughout the body after embryonic development and are found inside of different types of tissue. These stem cells have been found in tissues such as brain, bone, marrow, blood, blood vessels, skeletal muscles, skin, and the liver. They remain in a nondividing state for years until activatedby disease or tissue injury. These stem cells can divide or selfrenew indefinitely, enabling them to generate a range of cell types from the originating organ or even regenerate the entire original organ. It is generally thought that adult or somatic stem cells are limited in their ability to differentiate based on their tissue of origin, but there is some evidence to suggest that they can differentiate to become other cell types.The Bioethics of Gene TherapyThere are ethical issues involved in gene therapy. Some of the inquiries cited are:1. How can “good” and “bad” uses of gene therapy be distinguished?2. Who decides which traits are normal and which constitute a disability or disorder?3. Will the high costs of gene therapy make it available only to the wealthy?4. Could the widespread use of gene therapy make society less accepting of peoplewho are different?5. Should people be allowed to use gene therapy to enhance basic human traits such as height, intelligence, or athletic ability?  Another controversy involves the germline therapy. As discussed, germline therapy is genetic modification of germ cells that will pass the change on to the next generation. There are a lot of questions on the effects of the gene alteration to the unborn child and the next generation, since the alteration can be passed on. In the United States, the government does not fund researches on human germline gene therapy.SUMMARY  Gene therapy is a method that may treat or cure geneticrelated human illnesses.There are two forms of gene therapy. One is somatic gene therapy which involves the manipulation of genes in cells that will be helpful to the patient but not inherited to the next generation. The other is germline gene therapy which involves the genetic modification of germ cells or the origin cells that will pass the change to the next generation.  There are many ethical issues on gene therapy. Some of these issues are about questions on whose authority or power to decide which human traits should be altered; other concerns are on the discriminatory effects of those who may not or cannot avail gene therapy.What is gene therapy?Gene therapy is when DNA is introduced into a patient to treat a genetic disease. The new DNA usually contains a functioning gene to correct the effects of a diseasecausing mutation.Gene therapy uses sections of DNA? (usually genes?) to treat or prevent disease.The DNA is carefully selected to correct the effect of a mutated gene that is causing disease.The technique was first developed in 1972 but has, so far, had limited success in treating human diseases.Gene therapy may be a promising treatment option for some genetic diseases?, including muscular dystrophy? and cystic fibrosis?.There are two different types of gene therapy depending on which types of cells are treated:Somatic gene therapy: transfer of a section of DNA to any cell of the body that doesn’t produce sperm or eggs. Effects of gene therapy will not be passed onto the patient’s children.Germline gene therapy: transfer of a section of DNA to cells that produce eggs or sperm. Effects of gene therapy will be passed onto the patient’s children and subsequent generations.Gene therapy techniquesThere are several techniques for carrying out gene therapy. These include:Gene augmentation therapyThis is used to treat diseases caused by a mutation that stops a gene from producing a functioning product, such as a protein?.This therapy adds DNA containing a functional version of the lost gene back into the cell.The new gene produces a functioning product at sufficient levels to replace the protein that was originally missing.This is only successful if the effects of the disease are reversible or have not resulted in lasting damage to the body.For example, this can be used to treat loss of function disorders such as cystic fibrosis by introducing a functional copy of the gene to correct the disease (see illustration below).gene augmentation therapyGene inhibition therapySuitable for the treatment of infectious diseases, cancer and inherited disease caused by inappropriate gene activity.The aim is to introduce a gene whose product either:inhibits the expression of another geneinterferes with the activity of the product of another gene.The basis of this therapy is to eliminate the activity of a gene that encourages the growth of diseaserelated cells.For example, cancer is sometimes the result of the overactivation of an oncogene? (gene which stimulates cell growth). So, by eliminating the activity of that oncogene through gene inhibition therapy, it is possible to prevent further cell growth and stop the cancer in its tracks.gene inhibition therapyKilling of specific cellsSuitable for diseases such as cancer that can be treated by destroying certain groups of cells.The aim is to insert DNA into a diseased cell that causes that cell to die.This can be achieved in one of two ways:the inserted DNA contains a “suicide” gene that produces a highly toxic product which kills the diseased cellthe inserted DNA causes expression of a protein that marks the cells so that the diseased cells are attacked by the body’s natural immune system.It is essential with this method that the inserted DNA is targeted appropriately to avoid the death of cells that are functioning normally.gene therapy killing specific cellsHow is DNA transfer done?A section of DNA/gene containing instructions for making a useful protein is packaged within a vector, usually a virus?, bacterium? or plasmid?.The vector acts as a vehicle to carry the new DNA into the cells of a patient with a genetic disease.Once inside the cells of the patient, the DNA/gene is expressed by the cell’s normal machinery leading to production of the therapeutic protein and treatment of the patient’s disease.Challenges of gene therapyDelivering the gene to the right place and switching it on:it is crucial that the new gene reaches the right celldelivering a gene into the wrong cell would be inefficient and could also cause health problems for the patienteven once the right cell has been targeted the gene has to be turned oncells sometimes obstruct this process by shutting down genes that are showing unusual activity.Avoiding the immune response:The role of the immune system is to fight off intruders.Sometimes new genes introduced by gene therapy are considered potentiallyharmful intruders.This can spark an immune response in the patient, that could be harmful to them.Scientists therefore have the challenge of finding a way to deliver genes without the immune system ‘noticing’.This is usually by using vectors that are less likely to trigger an immune response.Making sure the new gene doesn’t disrupt the function of other genes:Ideally, a new gene introduced by gene therapy will integrate itself into the genome of the patient and continue working for the rest of their lives.There is a risk that the new gene will insert itself into the path of another gene, disrupting its activity.This could have damaging effects, for example, if it interferes with an important gene involved in regulating cell division, it could result in cancer.The cost of gene therapy:Many genetic disorders that can be targeted with gene therapy are extremely rare.Gene therapy therefore often requires an individual, casebycase approach. This may be effective, but may also be very expensive.
